README.md, before:

# todo
- delete the description and solution fields on anki cards

# references
- most stuff here isn't original
- explained solutions
	- https://leetcodethehardway.com/
	- https://algo.monster/liteproblems/271
		- replace 271 with whatever number the problem is
	- leetcode forum users
		- https://leetcode.com/hiepit/
			- this guy consistently seems the best
		- https://leetcode.com/archit91/
		- https://leetcode.com/its_vishal_7575/
		- https://leetcode.com/r0gue_shinobi/
		- https://leetcode.com/MarkSPhilip31/
	- have interesting perspectives
		- https://cheonhyangzhang.gitbooks.io/leetcode-solutions/content/
		- https://leetcode.com/stefanpochmann/
	- youtube
		- neetcode
		- https://www.youtube.com/@cheatcodeninja/videos
	- chinese
		- https://github.com/topics/leetcode-solutions
		- https://github.com/grandyang/leetcode
		- 1point3acres leetcode (need a mandarin translator)
- code
	- neetcode github
	- https://walkccc.me/LeetCode/
- general interview tips
	- https://interviewguide.dev/
	- https://www.techinterviewhandbook.org/
- to look up premium leetcode problem descriptions
	- https://www.lintcode.com/problem
	- https://leetcode.ca/search/
- more lists of problems
	- https://projecteuler.net/archives
	- teamblind
		- https://www.teamblind.com/post/New-Year-Gift---Curated-List-of-Top-75-LeetCode-Questions-to-Save-Your-Time-OaM1orEU
		- https://www.teamblind.com/post/Looking-for-a-good-follow-up-to-Blind-Curated-List-of-Top-75-Leetcode-Questions-nbV7TTvS
- 'theory'
	- CLRS
	- skiena
	- https://medium.com/leetcode-patterns





# Obsidian settings that I changed for this vault
- recording them here in case i need to set this up again
- these are necessary so that images show up when viewing markdown files on github.com; so them emgithub sees them too when it embeds them into anki cards
	- ![](!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240224004117.png)
	- ![](!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240224004445.png)

- these are just so the github folder/file structure is cleaner; mimics my personal obsidian
	- ![](!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240224004123.png)
- settings i accidentally stumbled on, but probly have toggles in the settings
	- when i moved an attachment file, it asked me if i wanted the app to always update the links, and i said yes
	- when i tried to delete a file, i checked dont remind
		- ![](!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240224005640.png)

Commit message:

confirm that absolute path to files works

README.md, after:

# todo
- delete the description and solution fields on anki cards

# references
- most stuff here isn't original
- explained solutions
	- https://leetcodethehardway.com/
	- https://algo.monster/liteproblems/271
		- replace 271 with whatever number the problem is
	- leetcode forum users
		- https://leetcode.com/hiepit/
			- this guy consistently seems the best
		- https://leetcode.com/archit91/
		- https://leetcode.com/its_vishal_7575/
		- https://leetcode.com/r0gue_shinobi/
		- https://leetcode.com/MarkSPhilip31/
	- have interesting perspectives
		- https://cheonhyangzhang.gitbooks.io/leetcode-solutions/content/
		- https://leetcode.com/stefanpochmann/
	- youtube
		- neetcode
		- https://www.youtube.com/@cheatcodeninja/videos
	- chinese
		- https://github.com/topics/leetcode-solutions
		- https://github.com/grandyang/leetcode
		- 1point3acres leetcode (need a mandarin translator)
- code
	- neetcode github
	- https://walkccc.me/LeetCode/
- general interview tips
	- https://interviewguide.dev/
	- https://www.techinterviewhandbook.org/
- to look up premium leetcode problem descriptions
	- https://www.lintcode.com/problem
	- https://leetcode.ca/search/
- more lists of problems
	- https://projecteuler.net/archives
	- teamblind
		- https://www.teamblind.com/post/New-Year-Gift---Curated-List-of-Top-75-LeetCode-Questions-to-Save-Your-Time-OaM1orEU
		- https://www.teamblind.com/post/Looking-for-a-good-follow-up-to-Blind-Curated-List-of-Top-75-Leetcode-Questions-nbV7TTvS
- 'theory'
	- CLRS
	- skiena
	- https://medium.com/leetcode-patterns





# Obsidian settings that I changed for this vault
- recording them here in case i need to set this up again
- these are necessary so that images show up when viewing markdown files on github.com; so them emgithub sees them too when it embeds them into anki cards
	- ![](!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240224004117.png)
	- ![](!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240224004445.png)


ACTUALLY change the first option to:
![](!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240226101435.png)

problem is that (i think its a bug as of 2/26/2024):
when using relative path: if you move files around, it doesnt update the paths 


- these are just so the github folder/file structure is cleaner; mimics my personal obsidian
	- ![](!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240224004123.png)
- settings i accidentally stumbled on, but probly have toggles in the settings
	- when i moved an attachment file, it asked me if i wanted the app to always update the links, and i said yes
	- when i tried to delete a file, i checked dont remind
		- ![](!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240224005640.png)
