todo.md, before:

# markdown structure: possible changes
- can i add code lines to code snippets?
- best way to add diagrams?
	- you can drag and drop local gif files into obsidian (check if i can drag straight from browser; probly not though); they automatically will get moved to attachments folder + linked there; then they show up on github markdown viewer, and also in the anki card embedding! 
	- making gifs:
		- * [Make an animated GIF from a slide show - Microsoft Support](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/make-an-animated-gif-from-a-slide-show-a598753e-92de-4f1b-8393-714db4d334b4)
		- seems google slides doesn't have this functionality...so you could create in gslides, then open in ppt
			- https://www.howtogeek.com/832437/how-to-convert-google-slides-to-video-or-gif/
	- alternative (that seems worse, but maybe could be useful to be aware of)
		- you can share a link to a google slides prez that auto plays/loops it 
		- ie https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/e/2PACX-1vQ-Oy-oQ0i4CvWbo8gf9-v42gVOb5gS76sJvhG7jqIntQV7R1dDG3tS7YUhRiPqYXBCjqCcVsJUeZjG/pub?start=true&loop=false&delayms=1500&slide=id.gbc95359713_0_384
		- * [Make Google Docs, Sheets, Slides & Forms public - Computer - Google Docs Editors Help](https://support.google.com/docs/answer/183965?hl=en&co=GENIE.Platform%3DDesktop#)
			- can get an embed link

# anki card changes
- the js embedding needs to also replace the 'directory' field; and then i add leetcode directory to all my leetcode cards

# general card structure/content reminders
- it's fine to leave a todo list for later
	- get stuff down in a state where, it won't be a headache to resume where i stopped
	- if revising is difficult (ie idk how to word things properly; or i can't really figure out the 'big idea'): just means i don't have the background/connections to make yet
		- it's just inefficient to spend an hour trying to figure it out: the explanation will eventually appear somewhere else (ie clrs; stackexchange; solution to another problem)
			- i have too much stuff to cover atm, i need to prepare for swe and quant interviews
	- so just come back later, when i've done more reviews; eventually, i'll have the bg/cnxns
- add the function prototype to every card, right under the link
- add descriptors 
- discussions of 'fundamental techniques'
	- remove from cards where this is just 1 step of the approach
		- ie [347. Top K Frequent Elements](LeetCode/347.%20Top%20K%20Frequent%20Elements.md)
	- add reference to cards where the 'fundamental technique' is the entire approach; ie exactly solved by these fundamental techniques
	- examples
		- [703. Kth Largest Element in a Stream](LeetCode/703.%20Kth%20Largest%20Element%20in%20a%20Stream.md)
			- heaps
		- [704. Binary Search](LeetCode/704.%20Binary%20Search.md)
			- 2 vs 3 cases
			- while loop condition allowing equality or not
		- [242. Valid Anagram](LeetCode/242.%20Valid%20Anagram.md) will contain discussions on:
			- counting
			- (a lot of this covered by realpython article on Counter class)
			- choice of what python structure to use for counting
				- dict (and the 2 typical ways ppl handle absent keys)
				- default dict
				- Counter
			- how to compare hash structures
				- cover the built-in ops/commands
					- ie `&` operator for Counter
				- optimizations:
					- construct structure as you pass through 1 item; then decrement counts as you pass through another
					- using a variable to store total counts, so you dont have to iterate through entire hashmap every time to compare 
						- 2 ways here too:
							- store how many 'letters of alphabet have the correct count'
							- store total letters we are correct with (and so we have success when total letter matches length of whatever we're trying to find/match)




# revise
- [84. Largest Rectangle in Histogram](LeetCode/84.%20Largest%20Rectangle%20in%20Histogram.md)
- [424. Longest Repeating Character Replacement](LeetCode/424.%20Longest%20Repeating%20Character%20Replacement.md)
- [973. K Closest Points to Origin](LeetCode/973.%20K%20Closest%20Points%20to%20Origin.md)
- [36. Valid Sudoku](LeetCode/36.%20Valid%20Sudoku.md)
- [739. Daily Temperatures](LeetCode/739.%20Daily%20Temperatures.md)
- [167. Two Sum II - Input Array Is Sorted](LeetCode/167.%20Two%20Sum%20II%20-%20Input%20Array%20Is%20Sorted.md)
- [128. Longest Consecutive Sequence](LeetCode/128.%20Longest%20Consecutive%20Sequence.md)
- [11. Container With Most Water](LeetCode/11.%20Container%20With%20Most%20Water.md)
- [33. Search in Rotated Sorted Array](LeetCode/33.%20Search%20in%20Rotated%20Sorted%20Array.md)
- [542. 01 Matrix](LeetCode/542.%2001%20Matrix.md)
- [853. Car Fleet](LeetCode/853.%20Car%20Fleet.md)
- [875. Koko Eating Bananas](LeetCode/875.%20Koko%20Eating%20Bananas.md)
- [226. Invert Binary Tree](LeetCode/226.%20Invert%20Binary%20Tree.md)
- [49. Group Anagrams](LeetCode/49.%20Group%20Anagrams.md)
- [981. Time Based Key-Value Store](LeetCode/981.%20Time%20Based%20Key-Value%20Store.md)
- [19. Remove Nth Node From End of List](LeetCode/19.%20Remove%20Nth%20Node%20From%20End%20of%20List.md)
- [138. Copy List with Random Pointer](LeetCode/138.%20Copy%20List%20with%20Random%20Pointer.md)
- [74. Search a 2D Matrix](LeetCode/74.%20Search%20a%202D%20Matrix.md)
- [704. Binary Search](LeetCode/704.%20Binary%20Search.md)
- [153. Find Minimum in Rotated Sorted Array](LeetCode/153.%20Find%20Minimum%20in%20Rotated%20Sorted%20Array.md)
- [2. Add Two Numbers](LeetCode/2.%20Add%20Two%20Numbers.md)
- [42. Trapping Rain Water](LeetCode/42.%20Trapping%20Rain%20Water.md)
- [733. Flood Fill](LeetCode/733.%20Flood%20Fill.md)
- [271. Encode and Decode Strings](LeetCode/271.%20Encode%20and%20Decode%20Strings.md)
- [15. 3Sum](LeetCode/15.%203Sum.md)
- [76. Minimum Window Substring](LeetCode/76.%20Minimum%20Window%20Substring.md)
- [57. Insert Interval](LeetCode/57.%20Insert%20Interval.md)
- [383. Ransom Note](LeetCode/383.%20Ransom%20Note.md)
- [232. Implement Queue using Stacks](LeetCode/232.%20Implement%20Queue%20using%20Stacks.md)
- [278. First Bad Version](LeetCode/278.%20First%20Bad%20Version.md)
- [125. Valid Palindrome](LeetCode/125.%20Valid%20Palindrome.md)
- [567. Permutation in String](LeetCode/567.%20Permutation%20in%20String.md)



# review
- [143. Reorder List](LeetCode/143.%20Reorder%20List.md)
- [153. Find Minimum in Rotated Sorted Array](LeetCode/153.%20Find%20Minimum%20in%20Rotated%20Sorted%20Array.md)
- [155. Min Stack](LeetCode/155.%20Min%20Stack.md)
- [853. Car Fleet](LeetCode/853.%20Car%20Fleet.md)
- [3. Longest Substring Without Repeating Characters](LeetCode/3.%20Longest%20Substring%20Without%20Repeating%20Characters.md)
- [875. Koko Eating Bananas](LeetCode/875.%20Koko%20Eating%20Bananas.md)
- [121. Best Time to Buy and Sell Stock](LeetCode/121.%20Best%20Time%20to%20Buy%20and%20Sell%20Stock.md)
- [138. Copy List with Random Pointer](LeetCode/138.%20Copy%20List%20with%20Random%20Pointer.md)
- [19. Remove Nth Node From End of List](LeetCode/19.%20Remove%20Nth%20Node%20From%20End%20of%20List.md)
- [206. Reverse Linked List](LeetCode/206.%20Reverse%20Linked%20List.md)
- [217. Contains Duplicate](LeetCode/217.%20Contains%20Duplicate.md)
- [242. Valid Anagram](LeetCode/242.%20Valid%20Anagram.md)
- [981. Time Based Key-Value Store](LeetCode/981.%20Time%20Based%20Key-Value%20Store.md)
- [2. Add Two Numbers](LeetCode/2.%20Add%20Two%20Numbers.md)
- [53. Maximum Subarray](LeetCode/53.%20Maximum%20Subarray.md)
- [141. Linked List Cycle](LeetCode/141.%20Linked%20List%20Cycle.md)
- [739. Daily Temperatures](LeetCode/739.%20Daily%20Temperatures.md)
- [235. Lowest Common Ancestor of a Binary Search Tree](LeetCode/235.%20Lowest%20Common%20Ancestor%20of%20a%20Binary%20Search%20Tree.md)
- [973. K Closest Points to Origin](LeetCode/973.%20K%20Closest%20Points%20to%20Origin.md)
- [226. Invert Binary Tree](LeetCode/226.%20Invert%20Binary%20Tree.md)
- [110. Balanced Binary Tree](LeetCode/110.%20Balanced%20Binary%20Tree.md)
- [733. Flood Fill](LeetCode/733.%20Flood%20Fill.md)
- [1. Two Sum](LeetCode/1.%20Two%20Sum.md)
- [238. Product of Array Except Self](LeetCode/238.%20Product%20of%20Array%20Except%20Self.md)
- [347. Top K Frequent Elements](LeetCode/347.%20Top%20K%20Frequent%20Elements.md)
- 


# new
- whatever is next on neetcode 150 (https://neetcode.io/practice)
	- meta: workflow
		- reliable github repos
			- https://github.com/lzl124631x/LeetCode/tree/master/leetcode
		- possibly reliable github repos
			- https://github.com/knockcat/Leetcode
		- possibly reliable leetcoders
			- https://leetcode.com/lee215/
			- https://leetcode.com/linfq/
		- draft a skeleton + dump screenies/etc for the solutions
			- high level summary of the optimal solution:  https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1A2PaQKcdwO_lwxz9bAnxXnIQayCouZP6d-ENrBz_NXc/edit#gid=0
			- watch the vid https://neetcode.io/practice
			- look it up on reliable sources for the 'best solution'
				- https://leetcodethehardway.com/
				- https://algo.monster/liteproblems/424
			- reliable leetcoders
				- hiepit https://leetcode.com/hiepit/
				- chaudhary1337 https://leetcode.com/chaudhary1337/
				- DBabichev https://leetcode.com/DBabichev/
			- reliable youtubers
				- https://www.youtube.com/@chaudharycodes/videos
			- then check leetcode forum solutions for other possible methods and clean explanations
		- clean it up a bit
		- once it's clean enough
			- unsuspend card in anki
			- add to toc in the readme
	- [[LeetCode/104. Maximum Depth of Binary Tree]]
	- [[LeetCode/543. Diameter of Binary Tree]]
	- [[LeetCode/100. Same Tree]]
	- [[LeetCode/572. Subtree of Another Tree]]
	- [[LeetCode/4. Median of Two Sorted Arrays]]
	- [[LeetCode/287. Find the Duplicate Number]]
	- [[LeetCode/146. LRU Cache]]
	- [[LeetCode/23. Merge k Sorted Lists]]
	- [[LeetCode/25. Reverse Nodes in k-Group]]
	- [[LeetCode/102. Binary Tree Level Order Traversal]]
	- [[LeetCode/199. Binary Tree Right Side View]]
	- [[LeetCode/1448. Count Good Nodes in Binary Tree]]
	- [[LeetCode/98. Validate Binary Search Tree]]
	- [[LeetCode/230. Kth Smallest Element in a BST]]
	- [[LeetCode/105. Construct Binary Tree from Preorder and Inorder Traversal]]
	- [[LeetCode/124. Binary Tree Maximum Path Sum]]
	- [[LeetCode/297. Serialize and Deserialize Binary Tree]]
	- [[LeetCode/208. Implement Trie (Prefix Tree)]]
	- [[LeetCode/211. Design Add and Search Words Data Structure]]
	- [[LeetCode/212. Word Search II]]
	- [[LeetCode/703. Kth Largest Element in a Stream]]
	- [[LeetCode/1046. Last Stone Weight]]
	- [[LeetCode/215. Kth Largest Element in an Array]]
	- [[LeetCode/621. Task Scheduler]]
	- [[LeetCode/355. Design Twitter]]
	- [[LeetCode/295. Find Median from Data Stream]]
- whatever is next on [grind169](https://www.techinterviewhandbook.org/grind75?weeks=26&hours=40&mode=all&grouping=topics&order=difficulty)
	- [438. Find All Anagrams in a String](LeetCode/438.%20Find%20All%20Anagrams%20in%20a%20String.md)
- other popular/reputable lists
	- https://leetcode.com/explore/interview/card/top-interview-questions-hard/
	- 
- seem interesting/useful/related (these might've already been covered)
	- monotonic queues/stacks
		- https://leetcode.com/problems/jump-game-iv/description/
		- https://leetcode.com/problems/constrained-subsequence-sum/description/
		- https://leetcode.com/problems/daily-temperatures/description/
		- https://leetcode.com/problems/largest-rectangle-in-histogram/description/
		- https://leetcode.com/problems/132-pattern/description/
		- https://leetcode.com/problems/shortest-subarray-with-sum-at-least-k/description/
		- https://leetcode.com/problems/best-time-to-buy-and-sell-stock-ii/description/
		- https://leetcode.com/problems/shortest-unsorted-continuous-subarray/description/
		- https://leetcode.com/problems/next-greater-element-i/description/
			- this one is related to [739. Daily Temperatures](LeetCode/739.%20Daily%20Temperatures.md)
			- imo it's valuable bc it highlights why [739. Daily Temperatures](LeetCode/739.%20Daily%20Temperatures.md) has 2 optimal solutions instead of just 1...it's bc the possible temps are a finite set
	- binary search
		- https://leetcode.com/problems/capacity-to-ship-packages-within-d-days/description/
		- https://leetcode.com/problems/divide-chocolate/description/
			- https://leetcode.com/discuss/interview-question/350800/Google-or-Onsite-or-Chocolate-Sweetness
		- 1539. [Kth Missing Positive Number](https://leetcode.com/problems/kth-missing-positive-number/discuss/779999/JavaC++Python-O(logN))
		- 1482. [Minimum Number of Days to Make m Bouquets](https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-number-of-days-to-make-m-bouquets/discuss/686316/javacpython-binary-search/578488)
		- 1283. [Find the Smallest Divisor Given a Threshold](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-the-smallest-divisor-given-a-threshold/discuss/446376/javacpython-bianry-search/401806)
		- 1231. [Divide Chocolate](https://leetcode.com/problems/divide-chocolate/discuss/408503/Python-Binary-Search)
		- 1011. [Capacity To Ship Packages In N Days](https://leetcode.com/problems/capacity-to-ship-packages-within-d-days/discuss/256729/javacpython-binary-search/351188?page=3)
		- 875. [Koko Eating Bananas](https://leetcode.com/problems/koko-eating-bananas/discuss/152324/C++JavaPython-Binary-Search)
		- 774. [Minimize Max Distance to Gas Station](https://leetcode.com/problems/minimize-max-distance-to-gas-station/discuss/113633/Easy-and-Concise-Solution-using-Binary-Search-C++JavaPython)
		- 410. [Split Array Largest Sum](https://leetcode.com/problems/split-array-largest-sum/)
- famous hard leetcode problems
	- [546. Remove Boxes](LeetCode/546.%20Remove%20Boxes.md)
	- [297. Serialize and Deserialize Binary Tree](https://leetcode.com/problems/serialize-and-deserialize-binary-tree/)
	- [23. Merge k Sorted Lists](https://leetcode.com/problems/merge-k-sorted-lists/)
	- https://leetcode.com/problems/alien-dictionary/description/
	- [126. Word Ladder II](https://leetcode.com/problems/word-ladder-ii/)
	- https://leetcode.com/problems/burst-balloons/description/
		- [312. Burst Balloons](https://leetcode.com/problems/burst-balloons/)
	- https://leetcode.com/problems/all-oone-data-structure/description/
		- [432. All O\`one Data Structure](https://leetcode.com/problems/all-oone-data-structure/)
	- https://leetcode.com/problems/split-array-largest-sum/description/
		- [410. Split Array Largest Sum](https://leetcode.com/problems/split-array-largest-sum/)
- other references to make problem writeups for
	- directly applicable to swe interview
		- aziz (EPI)
			- maybe buy the most recent python version at some point
			- https://elementsofprogramminginterviews.com/2017/11/27/2017-11-27-buying-epi/
		- skiena
		- maybe cormen
	- directly applicable to quant interview
		- brain teasers
		- combinatorics
		- mathcounts / AMC / IMO
		- art of problem solving
- return to leetcode
	- all problems covered by 'reliable' sources
		- neetcode
		- algomonster
		- hard way
- problems that are tangentially related
	- other programming problem sites
		- https://checkio.org
	- competitive programming
		- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Competitive_programming#Online_platforms
			- project euler
			- codeforces
		- other lists
			- peking icpc
				- http://poj.org/problemlist
- other references idk if i'm making problem writeups yet; bc seems like i should just make zotero reading cards out of references
	- swe performance
		- clean code, etc
		- most popular posts on swe-related stack exchange communities
		- reputable informal sources
			- realpython
			- hitchhikers
			- pmotw
		- reputable formal sources
			- ramalho's fluent python
	- swe interview at places like hrt
		- cpp
		- low level and systems concepts
	- stuff i alrdy know but i want to make cards on, for completeness, and is so fundamental, even tho mebe wont apply to job
		- linalg
		- prob
		- stats
		- signal processing
- 



# meta
- always keep the list in order of urgency
- examples of todo items
	- calc explanation
	- anki
		- backlog for reviews
		- revision ideas after review (check voice memos/notebook for edits)
		- blurbs that i think would be helpful for swe/leetcode interviews
		- leetcode
			- "i don't understand the main solutions; aka either the 'simple inefficient' ones and/or the 'important efficient' ones"
			- "don't understand a qualitatively different technique (but probly not urgent bc it's not strictly better)"
		- extremely rough cards that i understand the material, and have all the prose there; but are written very sloppily
		- future cards that i (just) have a skeleton for

Commit message:

finished 'comprehensive' structure of all visited problems

todo.md, after:

# assorted
- add code snippets to top
- Rename ‘implementations’ to ‘approaches’


# markdown structure: possible changes
- can i add code lines to code snippets?
- best way to add diagrams?
	- you can drag and drop local gif files into obsidian (check if i can drag straight from browser; probly not though); they automatically will get moved to attachments folder + linked there; then they show up on github markdown viewer, and also in the anki card embedding! 
	- making gifs:
		- * [Make an animated GIF from a slide show - Microsoft Support](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/make-an-animated-gif-from-a-slide-show-a598753e-92de-4f1b-8393-714db4d334b4)
		- seems google slides doesn't have this functionality...so you could create in gslides, then open in ppt
			- https://www.howtogeek.com/832437/how-to-convert-google-slides-to-video-or-gif/
	- alternative (that seems worse, but maybe could be useful to be aware of)
		- you can share a link to a google slides prez that auto plays/loops it 
		- ie https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/e/2PACX-1vQ-Oy-oQ0i4CvWbo8gf9-v42gVOb5gS76sJvhG7jqIntQV7R1dDG3tS7YUhRiPqYXBCjqCcVsJUeZjG/pub?start=true&loop=false&delayms=1500&slide=id.gbc95359713_0_384
		- * [Make Google Docs, Sheets, Slides & Forms public - Computer - Google Docs Editors Help](https://support.google.com/docs/answer/183965?hl=en&co=GENIE.Platform%3DDesktop#)
			- can get an embed link

# anki card changes
- the js embedding needs to also replace the 'directory' field; and then i add leetcode directory to all my leetcode cards

# general card structure/content reminders
- it's fine to leave a todo list for later
	- get stuff down in a state where, it won't be a headache to resume where i stopped
	- if revising is difficult (ie idk how to word things properly; or i can't really figure out the 'big idea'): just means i don't have the background/connections to make yet
		- it's just inefficient to spend an hour trying to figure it out: the explanation will eventually appear somewhere else (ie clrs; stackexchange; solution to another problem)
			- i have too much stuff to cover atm, i need to prepare for swe and quant interviews
	- so just come back later, when i've done more reviews; eventually, i'll have the bg/cnxns
- add the function prototype to every card, right under the link
- add descriptors 
- discussions of 'fundamental techniques'
	- remove from cards where this is just 1 step of the approach
		- ie [347. Top K Frequent Elements](LeetCode/347.%20Top%20K%20Frequent%20Elements.md)
	- add reference to cards where the 'fundamental technique' is the entire approach; ie exactly solved by these fundamental techniques
	- examples
		- [703. Kth Largest Element in a Stream](LeetCode/703.%20Kth%20Largest%20Element%20in%20a%20Stream.md)
			- heaps
		- [704. Binary Search](LeetCode/704.%20Binary%20Search.md)
			- 2 vs 3 cases
			- while loop condition allowing equality or not
		- [242. Valid Anagram](LeetCode/242.%20Valid%20Anagram.md) will contain discussions on:
			- counting
			- (a lot of this covered by realpython article on Counter class)
			- choice of what python structure to use for counting
				- dict (and the 2 typical ways ppl handle absent keys)
				- default dict
				- Counter
			- how to compare hash structures
				- cover the built-in ops/commands
					- ie `&` operator for Counter
				- optimizations:
					- construct structure as you pass through 1 item; then decrement counts as you pass through another
					- using a variable to store total counts, so you dont have to iterate through entire hashmap every time to compare 
						- 2 ways here too:
							- store how many 'letters of alphabet have the correct count'
							- store total letters we are correct with (and so we have success when total letter matches length of whatever we're trying to find/match)




# resources
- ![](!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240412021212.png)
	* [10 CS 106B Lecture Recursion 2 recursive data - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iiF7rFx32Fw&list=PL-h0BZdG_K4kAmsfvAik-Za826pNbQd0d&index=10)
	* [14 CS 106B Lecture Backtracking printBinary, printDecimal - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zL4mjpYpRmc&list=PL-h0BZdG_K4kAmsfvAik-Za826pNbQd0d&index=14)

# edited for my structure
- [84. Largest Rectangle in Histogram](LeetCode/84.%20Largest%20Rectangle%20in%20Histogram.md)
- [424. Longest Repeating Character Replacement](LeetCode/424.%20Longest%20Repeating%20Character%20Replacement.md)
- [973. K Closest Points to Origin](LeetCode/973.%20K%20Closest%20Points%20to%20Origin.md)
- [36. Valid Sudoku](LeetCode/36.%20Valid%20Sudoku.md)
- [739. Daily Temperatures](LeetCode/739.%20Daily%20Temperatures.md)
- [167. Two Sum II - Input Array Is Sorted](LeetCode/167.%20Two%20Sum%20II%20-%20Input%20Array%20Is%20Sorted.md)
- [128. Longest Consecutive Sequence](LeetCode/128.%20Longest%20Consecutive%20Sequence.md)
- [11. Container With Most Water](LeetCode/11.%20Container%20With%20Most%20Water.md)
- [33. Search in Rotated Sorted Array](LeetCode/33.%20Search%20in%20Rotated%20Sorted%20Array.md)
- [542. 01 Matrix](LeetCode/542.%2001%20Matrix.md)
- [853. Car Fleet](LeetCode/853.%20Car%20Fleet.md)
- [875. Koko Eating Bananas](LeetCode/875.%20Koko%20Eating%20Bananas.md)
- [226. Invert Binary Tree](LeetCode/226.%20Invert%20Binary%20Tree.md)
- [49. Group Anagrams](LeetCode/49.%20Group%20Anagrams.md)
- [981. Time Based Key-Value Store](LeetCode/981.%20Time%20Based%20Key-Value%20Store.md)
- [19. Remove Nth Node From End of List](LeetCode/19.%20Remove%20Nth%20Node%20From%20End%20of%20List.md)
- [138. Copy List with Random Pointer](LeetCode/138.%20Copy%20List%20with%20Random%20Pointer.md)
- [74. Search a 2D Matrix](LeetCode/74.%20Search%20a%202D%20Matrix.md)
- [704. Binary Search](LeetCode/704.%20Binary%20Search.md)
- [153. Find Minimum in Rotated Sorted Array](LeetCode/153.%20Find%20Minimum%20in%20Rotated%20Sorted%20Array.md)
- [2. Add Two Numbers](LeetCode/2.%20Add%20Two%20Numbers.md)
- [42. Trapping Rain Water](LeetCode/42.%20Trapping%20Rain%20Water.md)
- [733. Flood Fill](LeetCode/733.%20Flood%20Fill.md)
- [271. Encode and Decode Strings](LeetCode/271.%20Encode%20and%20Decode%20Strings.md)
- [15. 3Sum](LeetCode/15.%203Sum.md)
- [76. Minimum Window Substring](LeetCode/76.%20Minimum%20Window%20Substring.md)
- [57. Insert Interval](LeetCode/57.%20Insert%20Interval.md)
- [383. Ransom Note](LeetCode/383.%20Ransom%20Note.md)
- [232. Implement Queue using Stacks](LeetCode/232.%20Implement%20Queue%20using%20Stacks.md)
- [278. First Bad Version](LeetCode/278.%20First%20Bad%20Version.md)
- [125. Valid Palindrome](LeetCode/125.%20Valid%20Palindrome.md)
- [567. Permutation in String](LeetCode/567.%20Permutation%20in%20String.md)
- [143. Reorder List](LeetCode/143.%20Reorder%20List.md)
- [155. Min Stack](LeetCode/155.%20Min%20Stack.md)
- [206. Reverse Linked List](LeetCode/206.%20Reverse%20Linked%20List.md)
- [3. Longest Substring Without Repeating Characters](LeetCode/3.%20Longest%20Substring%20Without%20Repeating%20Characters.md)
- [121. Best Time to Buy and Sell Stock](LeetCode/121.%20Best%20Time%20to%20Buy%20and%20Sell%20Stock.md)
- [217. Contains Duplicate](LeetCode/217.%20Contains%20Duplicate.md)
- [242. Valid Anagram](LeetCode/242.%20Valid%20Anagram.md)
- [53. Maximum Subarray](LeetCode/53.%20Maximum%20Subarray.md)
- [141. Linked List Cycle](LeetCode/141.%20Linked%20List%20Cycle.md)
- [235. Lowest Common Ancestor of a Binary Search Tree](LeetCode/235.%20Lowest%20Common%20Ancestor%20of%20a%20Binary%20Search%20Tree.md)
- [110. Balanced Binary Tree](LeetCode/110.%20Balanced%20Binary%20Tree.md)
- [1. Two Sum](LeetCode/1.%20Two%20Sum.md)
- [238. Product of Array Except Self](LeetCode/238.%20Product%20of%20Array%20Except%20Self.md)
- [347. Top K Frequent Elements](LeetCode/347.%20Top%20K%20Frequent%20Elements.md)






# new
- whatever is next on neetcode 150 (https://neetcode.io/practice)
	- meta: workflow
		- reliable github repos
			- https://github.com/lzl124631x/LeetCode/tree/master/leetcode
		- possibly reliable github repos
			- https://github.com/knockcat/Leetcode
		- possibly reliable leetcoders
			- https://leetcode.com/lee215/
			- https://leetcode.com/linfq/
		- draft a skeleton + dump screenies/etc for the solutions
			- high level summary of the optimal solution:  https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1A2PaQKcdwO_lwxz9bAnxXnIQayCouZP6d-ENrBz_NXc/edit#gid=0
			- watch the vid https://neetcode.io/practice
			- look it up on reliable sources for the 'best solution'
				- https://leetcodethehardway.com/
				- https://algo.monster/liteproblems/424
			- reliable leetcoders
				- hiepit https://leetcode.com/hiepit/
				- chaudhary1337 https://leetcode.com/chaudhary1337/
				- DBabichev https://leetcode.com/DBabichev/
			- reliable youtubers
				- https://www.youtube.com/@chaudharycodes/videos
			- then check leetcode forum solutions for other possible methods and clean explanations
		- clean it up a bit
		- once it's clean enough
			- unsuspend card in anki
			- add to toc in the readme
	- [[LeetCode/104. Maximum Depth of Binary Tree]]
	- [[LeetCode/543. Diameter of Binary Tree]]
	- [[LeetCode/100. Same Tree]]
	- [[LeetCode/572. Subtree of Another Tree]]
	- [[LeetCode/4. Median of Two Sorted Arrays]]
	- [[LeetCode/287. Find the Duplicate Number]]
	- [[LeetCode/146. LRU Cache]]
	- [[LeetCode/23. Merge k Sorted Lists]]
	- [[LeetCode/25. Reverse Nodes in k-Group]]
	- [[LeetCode/102. Binary Tree Level Order Traversal]]
	- [[LeetCode/199. Binary Tree Right Side View]]
	- [[LeetCode/1448. Count Good Nodes in Binary Tree]]
	- [[LeetCode/98. Validate Binary Search Tree]]
	- [[LeetCode/230. Kth Smallest Element in a BST]]
	- [[LeetCode/105. Construct Binary Tree from Preorder and Inorder Traversal]]
	- [[LeetCode/124. Binary Tree Maximum Path Sum]]
	- [[LeetCode/297. Serialize and Deserialize Binary Tree]]
	- [[LeetCode/208. Implement Trie (Prefix Tree)]]
	- [[LeetCode/211. Design Add and Search Words Data Structure]]
	- [[LeetCode/212. Word Search II]]
	- [[LeetCode/703. Kth Largest Element in a Stream]]
	- [[LeetCode/1046. Last Stone Weight]]
	- [[LeetCode/215. Kth Largest Element in an Array]]
	- [[LeetCode/621. Task Scheduler]]
	- [[LeetCode/355. Design Twitter]]
	- [[LeetCode/295. Find Median from Data Stream]]
- whatever is next on [grind169](https://www.techinterviewhandbook.org/grind75?weeks=26&hours=40&mode=all&grouping=topics&order=difficulty)
	- [438. Find All Anagrams in a String](LeetCode/438.%20Find%20All%20Anagrams%20in%20a%20String.md)
- other popular/reputable lists
	- https://leetcode.com/explore/interview/card/top-interview-questions-hard/
	- 
- seem interesting/useful/related (these might've already been covered)
	- monotonic queues/stacks
		- https://leetcode.com/problems/jump-game-iv/description/
		- https://leetcode.com/problems/constrained-subsequence-sum/description/
		- https://leetcode.com/problems/daily-temperatures/description/
		- https://leetcode.com/problems/largest-rectangle-in-histogram/description/
		- https://leetcode.com/problems/132-pattern/description/
		- https://leetcode.com/problems/shortest-subarray-with-sum-at-least-k/description/
		- https://leetcode.com/problems/best-time-to-buy-and-sell-stock-ii/description/
		- https://leetcode.com/problems/shortest-unsorted-continuous-subarray/description/
		- https://leetcode.com/problems/next-greater-element-i/description/
			- this one is related to [739. Daily Temperatures](LeetCode/739.%20Daily%20Temperatures.md)
			- imo it's valuable bc it highlights why [739. Daily Temperatures](LeetCode/739.%20Daily%20Temperatures.md) has 2 optimal solutions instead of just 1...it's bc the possible temps are a finite set
	- binary search
		- https://leetcode.com/problems/capacity-to-ship-packages-within-d-days/description/
		- https://leetcode.com/problems/divide-chocolate/description/
			- https://leetcode.com/discuss/interview-question/350800/Google-or-Onsite-or-Chocolate-Sweetness
		- 1539. [Kth Missing Positive Number](https://leetcode.com/problems/kth-missing-positive-number/discuss/779999/JavaC++Python-O(logN))
		- 1482. [Minimum Number of Days to Make m Bouquets](https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-number-of-days-to-make-m-bouquets/discuss/686316/javacpython-binary-search/578488)
		- 1283. [Find the Smallest Divisor Given a Threshold](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-the-smallest-divisor-given-a-threshold/discuss/446376/javacpython-bianry-search/401806)
		- 1231. [Divide Chocolate](https://leetcode.com/problems/divide-chocolate/discuss/408503/Python-Binary-Search)
		- 1011. [Capacity To Ship Packages In N Days](https://leetcode.com/problems/capacity-to-ship-packages-within-d-days/discuss/256729/javacpython-binary-search/351188?page=3)
		- 875. [Koko Eating Bananas](https://leetcode.com/problems/koko-eating-bananas/discuss/152324/C++JavaPython-Binary-Search)
		- 774. [Minimize Max Distance to Gas Station](https://leetcode.com/problems/minimize-max-distance-to-gas-station/discuss/113633/Easy-and-Concise-Solution-using-Binary-Search-C++JavaPython)
		- 410. [Split Array Largest Sum](https://leetcode.com/problems/split-array-largest-sum/)
- famous hard leetcode problems
	- [546. Remove Boxes](LeetCode/546.%20Remove%20Boxes.md)
	- [297. Serialize and Deserialize Binary Tree](https://leetcode.com/problems/serialize-and-deserialize-binary-tree/)
	- [23. Merge k Sorted Lists](https://leetcode.com/problems/merge-k-sorted-lists/)
	- https://leetcode.com/problems/alien-dictionary/description/
	- [126. Word Ladder II](https://leetcode.com/problems/word-ladder-ii/)
	- https://leetcode.com/problems/burst-balloons/description/
		- [312. Burst Balloons](https://leetcode.com/problems/burst-balloons/)
	- https://leetcode.com/problems/all-oone-data-structure/description/
		- [432. All O\`one Data Structure](https://leetcode.com/problems/all-oone-data-structure/)
	- https://leetcode.com/problems/split-array-largest-sum/description/
		- [410. Split Array Largest Sum](https://leetcode.com/problems/split-array-largest-sum/)
- other references to make problem writeups for
	- directly applicable to swe interview
		- aziz (EPI)
			- maybe buy the most recent python version at some point
			- https://elementsofprogramminginterviews.com/2017/11/27/2017-11-27-buying-epi/
		- skiena
		- maybe cormen
	- directly applicable to quant interview
		- brain teasers
		- combinatorics
		- mathcounts / AMC / IMO
		- art of problem solving
- return to leetcode
	- all problems covered by 'reliable' sources
		- neetcode
		- algomonster
		- hard way
- problems that are tangentially related
	- other programming problem sites
		- https://checkio.org
	- competitive programming
		- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Competitive_programming#Online_platforms
			- project euler
			- codeforces
		- other lists
			- peking icpc
				- http://poj.org/problemlist
- other references idk if i'm making problem writeups yet; bc seems like i should just make zotero reading cards out of references
	- swe performance
		- clean code, etc
		- most popular posts on swe-related stack exchange communities
		- reputable informal sources
			- realpython
			- hitchhikers
			- pmotw
		- reputable formal sources
			- ramalho's fluent python
	- swe interview at places like hrt
		- cpp
		- low level and systems concepts
	- stuff i alrdy know but i want to make cards on, for completeness, and is so fundamental, even tho mebe wont apply to job
		- linalg
		- prob
		- stats
		- signal processing
- 



# meta
- always keep the list in order of urgency
- examples of todo items
	- calc explanation
	- anki
		- backlog for reviews
		- revision ideas after review (check voice memos/notebook for edits)
		- blurbs that i think would be helpful for swe/leetcode interviews
		- leetcode
			- "i don't understand the main solutions; aka either the 'simple inefficient' ones and/or the 'important efficient' ones"
			- "don't understand a qualitatively different technique (but probly not urgent bc it's not strictly better)"
		- extremely rough cards that i understand the material, and have all the prose there; but are written very sloppily
		- future cards that i (just) have a skeleton for
