[1046. Last Stone Weight](https://leetcode.com/problems/last-stone-weight/)

```
class Solution:
    def lastStoneWeight(self, stones: List[int]) -> int:
        
```

# Description
You are given an array of integers `stones` where `stones[i]` is the weight of the `ith` stone.

We are playing a game with the stones. On each turn, we choose the **heaviest two stones** and smash them together. Suppose the heaviest two stones have weights `x` and `y` with `x <= y`. The result of this smash is:

- If `x == y`, both stones are destroyed, and
- If `x != y`, the stone of weight `x` is destroyed, and the stone of weight `y` has new weight `y - x`.

At the end of the game, there is **at most one** stone left.

Return _the weight of the last remaining stone_. If there are no stones left, return `0`.

**Example 1:**  
**Input:** `stones = [2,7,4,1,8,1]`  
**Output:** `1`  
**Explanation:**   
We combine 7 and 8 to get 1 so the array converts to `[2,4,1,1,1]` then,  
we combine 2 and 4 to get 2 so the array converts to `[2,1,1,1]` then,  
we combine 2 and 1 to get 1 so the array converts to `[1,1,1]` then,  
we combine 1 and 1 to get 0 so the array converts to `[1]` then that's the value of the last stone.  

**Example 2:**  
**Input:** `stones = [1]`  
**Output:** `1`  

**Constraints:**
- `1 <= stones.length <= 30`
- `1 <= stones[i] <= 1000`

---


# Approaches



```
class Solution:
    def lastStoneWeight(self, stones: List[int]) -> int:
        stones = [-s for s in stones]
        heapq.heapify(stones)

        while len(stones) > 1:
            first = heapq.heappop(stones)
            second = heapq.heappop(stones)
            if second > first:
                heapq.heappush(stones, first - second)

        stones.append(0)
        return abs(stones[0])

# There's a private _heapify_max method.
# https://github.com/python/cpython/blob/1170d5a292b46f754cd29c245a040f1602f70301/Lib/heapq.py#L198
class Solution(object):
    def lastStoneWeight(self, stones):
        heapq._heapify_max(stones)
        while len(stones) > 1:
            max_stone = heapq._heappop_max(stones)
            diff = max_stone - stones[0]
            if diff:
                heapq._heapreplace_max(stones, diff)
            else:
                heapq._heappop_max(stones)
        
        stones.append(0)
        return stones[0]

```