[125. Valid Palindrome](https://leetcode.com/problems/valid-palindrome/)

```
class Solution:
    def isPalindrome(self, s: str) -> bool:
        
```

# Description
A phrase is a **palindrome** if, after converting all uppercase letters into lowercase letters and removing all non-alphanumeric characters, it reads the same forward and backward. Alphanumeric characters include letters and numbers.

Given a string `s`, return `true` _if it is a **palindrome**, or_ `false` _otherwise_.

**Example 1:**  
**Input:** `s = "A man, a plan, a canal: Panama"`  
**Output:** `true`  
**Explanation:** "amanaplanacanalpanama" is a palindrome.  

**Example 2:**  
**Input:** `s = "race a car"`  
**Output:** `false`  
**Explanation:** "raceacar" is not a palindrome.  

**Example 3:**  
**Input:** `s = " "`  
**Output:** `true`  
**Explanation:** `s` is an empty string `""` after removing non-alphanumeric characters.  
Since an empty string reads the same forward and backward, it is a palindrome.  

**Constraints:**
- `1 <= s.length <= 2 * 10^5`
- `s` consists only of printable ASCII characters.

---



# todo
- delete explanation, they’re so simple
	- maybe just oneliner comment at the beginning that quickly lists routines, ie:
		- “sort and compare”
		- “reverse and compare”
		- “compare chars at pointers”

- move complexity as comments in the code


## to fundy, naming
- naming techniques
	- imo i shouldnt call this 2pointer? not similar at all to other 2pointer techniques in other probs
		- ie no ‘ignoring iterations’
		- just call it ‘pointers’
		- imo, ‘2 pointer’ should specifically mean ‘tossing iterations’
		- or maybe...if 2pointer isnt an official jargon..then figure out a different jargon to use for those methods...
	- just combine the non-pointer approaches
		- the point is just: ‘do you know python methods to manipulate strings’







# Results
## python string basics
- fundy for common string ops in python
	- isalnum, lower, join
	- maybe add other standard ops?


## do you actually need an array (aka history), or is a pointer sufficient
- string can be considered an 'array of letters'
- use pointer if you just need 'traversal from multiple driections', but don't necessarily need 'history in multiple directions'
- (meta: should be cited by the following:)
	- fundy for kadane's
		- bc imo: the way you get kadane's is realizing you don't actually need history; so that's how you get from array (DP) to pointers (kadane's)
	- [42. Trapping Rain Water](42.%20Trapping%20Rain%20Water.md)
	


# Implementations

## array
```
# array: aka reverse and compare
def isPalindrome(self, s: str) -> bool:
    s = [c.lower() for c in s if str.isalnum(c)]
    s = ''.join(s)
    return s == s[::-1]
```

- strategy
	- clean up string so that it's alphanumeric lowercase
	- construct its reverse
	- compare
- complexity
	- O(N) space
	- O(N) space




## pointers
```
def isPalindrome(self, s: str) -> bool:
    i = 0
    j = len(s) - 1
    while i < j:
        if s[i].isalnum() and s[j].isalnum():
            if s[i].lower() != s[j].lower():
                return False
            else:
                i += 1
                j -= 1
        else:
            i += not s[i].isalnum()
            j -= not s[j].isalnum()
    return True
```

- strategy
	- Have two pointers at the start and end of the string
	- move pointers inward until they're both at alphanumeric chars
	- if they match, continue
		- break false if they don't match 
	- return true if pointers meet
- complexity
	- O(N) time
	- O(1) space