LeetCode/139. Word Break.md, before:

[139. Word Break](https://leetcode.com/problems/word-break/)

```python
class Solution:
    def wordBreak(self, s: str, wordDict: List[str]) -> bool:
        
```

# Description

Given a string `s` and a dictionary of strings `wordDict`, return `true` if `s` can be segmented into a space-separated sequence of one or more dictionary words.

**Note** that the same word in the dictionary may be reused multiple times in the segmentation.

**Example 1:**  
**Input:** `s = "leetcode", wordDict = ["leet","code"]`  
**Output:** `true`  
**Explanation:** Return `true` because `"leetcode"` can be segmented as `"leet code"`.

**Example 2:**  
**Input:** `s = "applepenapple", wordDict = ["apple","pen"]`  
**Output:** `true`
**Explanation:** Return `true` because `"applepenapple"` can be segmented as `"apple pen apple"`.  
Note that you are allowed to reuse a dictionary word.

**Example 3:**  
**Input:** `s = "catsandog", wordDict = ["cats","dog","sand","and","cat"]`  
**Output:** `false`

**Constraints:**
- `1 <= s.length <= 300`
- `1 <= wordDict.length <= 1000`
- `1 <= wordDict[i].length <= 20`
- `s` and `wordDict[i]` consist of only lowercase English letters.
- All the strings of `wordDict` are **unique**.

---


# todo




#/todo
- (iirc neetcode said the following, but imo it's not actually what you want)
	- bc the whole thing doesnt need to go in dict; it just needs to be split by dict
	- and then the remaining portion is what we check whether it's in dict or not
	- also seems like neetcodes subproblem is backwards		
	- here, the subproblem:
		- returns true or false
		- question:
			- fn is true if there exists fk, where k < n, such that the substring from k to n is in the dictionary.
		    - If no such fk exists, then fn is false.
		- storage
			- array of size n+1


#/fundy
-  see if skiena has discussions for dp that discuss:
	- bottom-up often better than top-down bc you often dont need to store all subproblems
	- ths fundy wouldnt go here, this isn't a great example of it


 #/fundy 
 - is there ever a situation in DP where it does matter, which way you iterate?
	 - ie forward/backwards
	 - i suspect it doesn't...a lot of problems, the subproblems are 'symmetric'
		 - i think as long as the way you iterate has sensible way to build up subproblems, then it doesn't matter
		 - but imo, it's just easier to go 'forwards' bc then implementing in code seems cleaner
	- if it does matter:
		- try to find examples for both directions
		- ie a problem where you have to iterate forwards for strictly best complexity, and another problem where you need backwards

#/fundy
- algomonster soln code has some nice stuff
	- the python `any` function
		- i think it's definitely having a code example here that uses it..it really cleans stuff up





# References

## #dynamic_programming 

- subproblem:
	- `f(n) = s[:n] can be word-breaked`
- solution
	- fn is true if and only if
		- fk is true, and
		- s[k:n] in dictionary



- storage? aka size of subproblem solns to save:
	- naive: array size `len(s)+1`
	- can probly do small optimization here:
		- array size `max(len(word in wordDict))`
		- bc at a certain point, subproblems can get too small that it doesn't matter
			- ie bc latter part of the string bigger than anything in wordDict
	

- Two ways to compute fn from subproblems are discussed.
	- iterate over subproblems fk
	    - Checking every true fk and verifying rest of substring existence in the dictionary.
	- iterate over dictionary
	    - Checking every word in the dictionary and verifying if it matches the latter part of the substring (and whether earlier part, aka fk, is true)


- first option seems bad if string length is much greater than num words in wordDict
- otoh: first option:
	- verifying existence in dictionary is an O(1) check
	- and you only need to iterate over subproblems based on 'max length of word in dictionary'
		- ie at a certain point, subproblems are too small, bc rest of string is longer than anything in dict






# Results

## assorted #dynamic_programming tips

- (probly figure out how to name each of these, and then use a more specific tag)

- remember subproblem should be exact same question as 'main problem'
	- (unless you decide to run dp on a variant of the original problem)
	- just on smaller inputs
	- remember this means: answer is the same 'type'
		- ie here, the main problem returns a boolean; so subproblem returns a boolean



- this is probly a decent example of how dp is often used mainly for time complexity savings
	- aka so that we don't have to repeatedly solve the same subproblem






## #/tbd 

- (there is a generalization here, but imo figure it out later...will probly become obvious when i see more examples of it)
- observe 2 ways to check for 'substring at beginning of word' in dict:
	- for each substring `s[:k]`, check if it's in dict
	- for each item in dict, check if it matches the beginning of `s`
- and the choice of which to do should theoretically depend on sizes of `s` and `dict`
	- (tho...maybe python implementation matters here?)
	- aka if `s` is much larger (as is the case here), then maybe you should iterate through dict?
	- if `dict` is much larger, then you should iterate through 'left substrings' of `s`



## #python/any
- take a look at algomonster code



# Strategies



## dynamic programming
- implementations
	- outer backwards, inner over dict
		- neetcode
	- outer forwards, inner over substrings
		- https://algo.monster/liteproblems/139
```python
# outer backwards; inner over dict
class Solution:
    def wordBreak(self, s: str, wordDict: List[str]) -> bool:

        dp = [False] * (len(s) + 1)
        dp[len(s)] = True

        for i in range(len(s) - 1, -1, -1):
            for w in wordDict:
                if (i + len(w)) <= len(s) and s[i : i + len(w)] == w:
                    dp[i] = dp[i + len(w)]
                if dp[i]:
                    break

        return dp[0]


# iterate through string
class Solution:
	def

```

Commit message:

finished dp
serious cleanup is required; i am waiting to do this until after i finish the 'greedy' patterns, since imo knowing those will help me understand dp a lot better

LeetCode/139. Word Break.md, after:

[139. Word Break](https://leetcode.com/problems/word-break/)

```python
class Solution:
    def wordBreak(self, s: str, wordDict: List[str]) -> bool:
        
```

# Description

Given a string `s` and a dictionary of strings `wordDict`, return `true` if `s` can be segmented into a space-separated sequence of one or more dictionary words.

**Note** that the same word in the dictionary may be reused multiple times in the segmentation.

**Example 1:**  
**Input:** `s = "leetcode", wordDict = ["leet","code"]`  
**Output:** `true`  
**Explanation:** Return `true` because `"leetcode"` can be segmented as `"leet code"`.

**Example 2:**  
**Input:** `s = "applepenapple", wordDict = ["apple","pen"]`  
**Output:** `true`
**Explanation:** Return `true` because `"applepenapple"` can be segmented as `"apple pen apple"`.  
Note that you are allowed to reuse a dictionary word.

**Example 3:**  
**Input:** `s = "catsandog", wordDict = ["cats","dog","sand","and","cat"]`  
**Output:** `false`

**Constraints:**
- `1 <= s.length <= 300`
- `1 <= wordDict.length <= 1000`
- `1 <= wordDict[i].length <= 20`
- `s` and `wordDict[i]` consist of only lowercase English letters.
- All the strings of `wordDict` are **unique**.

---


# todo




#/todo
- (iirc neetcode said the following, but imo it's not actually what you want)
	- bc the whole thing doesnt need to go in dict; it just needs to be split by dict
	- and then the remaining portion is what we check whether it's in dict or not
	- also seems like neetcodes subproblem is backwards		
	- here, the subproblem:
		- returns true or false
		- question:
			- fn is true if there exists fk, where k < n, such that the substring from k to n is in the dictionary.
		    - If no such fk exists, then fn is false.
		- storage
			- array of size n+1


#/fundy
-  see if skiena has discussions for dp that discuss:
	- bottom-up often better than top-down bc you often dont need to store all subproblems
	- ths fundy wouldnt go here, this isn't a great example of it


 #/fundy 
 - is there ever a situation in DP where it does matter, which way you iterate?
	 - ie forward/backwards
	 - i suspect it doesn't...a lot of problems, the subproblems are 'symmetric'
		 - i think as long as the way you iterate has sensible way to build up subproblems, then it doesn't matter
		 - but imo, it's just easier to go 'forwards' bc then implementing in code seems cleaner
	- if it does matter:
		- try to find examples for both directions
		- ie a problem where you have to iterate forwards for strictly best complexity, and another problem where you need backwards

#/fundy
- algomonster soln code has some nice stuff
	- the python `any` function
		- i think it's definitely having a code example here that uses it..it really cleans stuff up





# References

## #dynamic_programming 


- i think this is an example where:
	- solution to the problem isn't just 'directly from subproblems'
		- there is some extra processing you need to do (aka also check stuff in dictionary)
		- but the point is: knowing solution to subproblems will significantly improve time efficiency


- subproblem:
	- `f(n) = s[:n] can be word-breaked`
- solution
	- fn is true if and only if
		- fk is true, and
		- s[k:n] in dictionary



- storage? aka size of subproblem solns to save:
	- naive: array size `len(s)+1`
	- can probly do small optimization here:
		- array size `max(len(word in wordDict))`
		- bc at a certain point, subproblems can get too small that it doesn't matter
			- ie bc latter part of the string bigger than anything in wordDict
	

- Two ways to compute fn from subproblems are discussed.
	- iterate over subproblems fk
	    - Checking every true fk and verifying rest of substring existence in the dictionary.
	- iterate over dictionary
	    - Checking every word in the dictionary and verifying if it matches the latter part of the substring (and whether earlier part, aka fk, is true)


- first option seems bad if string length is much greater than num words in wordDict
- otoh: first option:
	- verifying existence in dictionary is an O(1) check
	- and you only need to iterate over subproblems based on 'max length of word in dictionary'
		- ie at a certain point, subproblems are too small, bc rest of string is longer than anything in dict






# Results

## assorted #dynamic_programming tips

- (probly figure out how to name each of these, and then use a more specific tag)

- remember subproblem should be exact same question as 'main problem'
	- (unless you decide to run dp on a variant of the original problem)
	- just on smaller inputs
	- remember this means: answer is the same 'type'
		- ie here, the main problem returns a boolean; so subproblem returns a boolean



- this is probly a decent example of how dp is often used mainly for time complexity savings
	- aka so that we don't have to repeatedly solve the same subproblem






## #/tbd 

- (there is a generalization here, but imo figure it out later...will probly become obvious when i see more examples of it)
- observe 2 ways to check for 'substring at beginning of word' in dict:
	- for each substring `s[:k]`, check if it's in dict
	- for each item in dict, check if it matches the beginning of `s`
- and the choice of which to do should theoretically depend on sizes of `s` and `dict`
	- (tho...maybe python implementation matters here?)
	- aka if `s` is much larger (as is the case here), then maybe you should iterate through dict?
	- if `dict` is much larger, then you should iterate through 'left substrings' of `s`



## #python/any
- take a look at algomonster code



# Strategies



## dynamic programming
- implementations
	- outer backwards, inner over dict
		- neetcode
	- outer forwards, inner over substrings
		- https://algo.monster/liteproblems/139
```python
# outer backwards; inner over dict
class Solution:
    def wordBreak(self, s: str, wordDict: List[str]) -> bool:

        dp = [False] * (len(s) + 1)
        dp[len(s)] = True

        for i in range(len(s) - 1, -1, -1):
            for w in wordDict:
                if (i + len(w)) <= len(s) and s[i : i + len(w)] == w:
                    dp[i] = dp[i + len(w)]
                if dp[i]:
                    break

        return dp[0]


# iterate through string
class Solution:
	def

```
