LeetCode/143. Reorder List.md, before:

[143. Reorder List](https://leetcode.com/problems/reorder-list/)

```
# Definition for singly-linked list.
# class ListNode:
#     def __init__(self, val=0, next=None):
#         self.val = val
#         self.next = next
class Solution:
    def reorderList(self, head: Optional[ListNode]) -> None:
        """
        Do not return anything, modify head in-place instead.
        """
        
```

You are given the head of a singly linked-list. The list can be represented as:

`L0 → L1 → … → Ln - 1 → Ln`

_Reorder the list to be on the following form:_

`L0 → Ln → L1 → Ln - 1 → L2 → Ln - 2 → …`

You may not modify the values in the list's nodes. Only nodes themselves may be changed.

**Example 1:**  
![](!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240227110311.png)  
**Input:** `head = [1,2,3,4]`  
**Output:** `[1,4,2,3]`  

**Example 2:**  
![](!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240227110327.png)  
**Input:** `head = [1,2,3,4,5]`  
**Output:** `[1,5,2,4,3]`  

**Constraints:**
- The number of nodes in the list is in the range `[1, 5 * 10^4]`.
- `1 <= Node.val <= 1000`

---

# Brute/direct
```
"""stack"""
class Solution:
    def reorderList(self, head: Optional[ListNode]) -> None:
        st = []
        cur = head
        while cur != None:
            st.append(cur)
            cur = cur.next
            
        for i in range(len(st) // 2):
            nxt = head.next
            head.next = st.pop()
            head = head.next
            head.next = nxt
            head = head.next
            
        if head != None:
            head.next = None


"""array"""
class Solution:
    def reorderList(self, head: ListNode) -> None:		
        arr = []
        cur, length = head, 0
        while cur:
            arr.append(cur)
            cur, length = cur.next, length + 1
		
        left, right = 0, length-1
        last = head
        
        while left < right:
            arr[left].next = arr[right]
            left += 1
            
            if left == right: 
                last = arr[right]
                break
                
            arr[right].next = arr[left]
            right -= 1
            
            last = arr[left]
        
        if last:
            last.next= 

"""array: alternative way to loop the linking"""
class Solution:
    def reorderList(self, head):
        arr, Iter = [], head
        while Iter:
            arr.append(Iter)
            Iter = Iter.next
        
        L, R = 1, len(arr)-1
        for i in range(len(arr)):
            if i & 1:                    # odd iteration
                head.next = arr[L]
                L += 1
            else:                        # even iteration
                head.next = arr[R]
                R -= 1
            head = head.next
        head.next = None

```
- use a data structure to make it very easy to determine how to link nodes
	- dynamic array
		- add all nodes to an dynamic array (ie can be resized; bc we dont know length of linked list), in order
		- then it's easy to just iterate indices on both ends, to link
			- example:
				- Once the array is filled, we initialize two variables `L` and `R` which denotes the current positions on the two ends from which we need to re-order the list in alternate fashion
				- In odd iteration, we assign the next node as `arr[L]` and move the `L` pointer ahead
				- In even iteration, we assign the next node as `arr[R]` and move the `R` pointer backward
				- This will re-order the list as alternating nodes from start and end as required.
	- stack
		- add all nodes to a stack
		- then between every two nodes, insert the one in the top of the stack
- complexity
	- O(n) time
	- O(n) space






# Recursion (???)

```
"""alternative"""

class Solution:
    def reorderList(self, head: Optional[ListNode]) -> None:
        start=end=head
        self.lLen=0
        self.start=head
        def rePosition(node,mid):
            if not node:
                self.lLen=mid
                return
            rePosition(node.next,mid+1)  #go till end of list
            if mid>self.lLen//2:  #for all node greated than the midpos, change its connection
                temp=self.start.next
                self.start.next=node
                self.start=temp
                node.next=self.start
            if mid==self.lLen//2: # once we reach the middle, make its next as None
                node.next=None
        rePosition(end,0)
        return head


"""clean"""
def reorderList(self, head: Optional[ListNode]) -> None:

	def rec(root: ListNode, cur: ListNode) -> ListNode:
		if not cur:
			return root
		root = rec(root, cur.next)

		if not root:
			return None
		tmp = None
		if root == cur or root.next == cur:
			cur.next = None
		else:
			tmp = root.next
			root.next = cur
			cur.next = tmp
		return tmp
		
	return rec(head, head.next)
```

- complexity
	- time
	- space
		- probly O(n) bc call stack



# 'chain techniques'



```
class Solution:
    def reorderList(self, head: ListNode) -> None:
        # find middle
        slow, fast = head, head.next
        while fast and fast.next:
            slow = slow.next
            fast = fast.next.next

        # reverse second half
        second = slow.next
        prev = slow.next = None
        while second:
            tmp = second.next
            second.next = prev
            prev = second
            second = tmp

        # merge two halfs
        first, second = head, prev
        while second:
            tmp1, tmp2 = first.next, second.next
            first.next = second
            second.next = tmp1
            first, second = tmp1, tmp2
```


- strategy
	- Step 1: Find the middle of the linked list
		- be careful, it needs to work properly both for even and for odd number of nodes. For this we can either just count number of elements and then divide it by to, and do two traversals of list. Or we can use slow/fast iterators trick, where slow moves with speed 1 and fast moves with speed 2. Then when fast reches the end, slow will be in the middle, as we need.
	- Step 2: Reverse the last half of the linked list.
		- see [206. Reverse Linked List](206.%20Reverse%20Linked%20List.md)
		- The idea is to keep **three** pointers: `prev, curr, nextt` stand for previous, current and next and change connections in place. Do not forget to use `slow.next = None`, in opposite case you will have list with loop.
	- Step 3: Merge 2 list one by one.
		- see [21. Merge Two Sorted Lists](21.%20Merge%20Two%20Sorted%20Lists.md)
		- Finally, we need to merge two lists, given its heads. These heads are denoted by `head`and `prev`, so for simplisity I created `head1` and `head2` variables. What we need to do now is to interchange nodes: we put `head2` as next element of `head1` and then say that `head1` is now `head2` and `head2` is previous `head1.next`. In this way we do one step for one of the lists and rename lists, so next time we will take element from `head2`, then rename again and so on.
- complexity
	- O(n) time
		- do `O(n)` iterations to find middle, then we do `O(n)` iterations to reverse second half and finally we do `O(n)` iterations to merge lists.
	- O(1) space
- note
	- Can someone explain why `slow.next = None` is needed after reversing the second half of the linked list? I don't quite understand how removing it will result in a loop.
		- Without that line, `slow.next` will point to the last node in the _first half_ of the list. This will result in a cycle.
		- ie, the last node of first half list is still directed to the second list. In order to change that we have to set to None, else it will be a cycle.
		- For example, for list `[1,2,3,4,5,6]`, `slow.next = None` breaks it into `[1,2,3]` and `[6,5,4]`. Otherwise, we have `[1,2,3,4]` and `[6,5,4]`, which results in a cycle in step 3.


# 'Iterative but space efficient' (???)
- is this even possible
- strategy
	- 
- move a pointer all the way to last node
- then use 2 points at front and 2 pointers at back, to link things together

Commit message:

143
realized that one of the techniques makes no sense

LeetCode/143. Reorder List.md, after:

[143. Reorder List](https://leetcode.com/problems/reorder-list/)

```
# Definition for singly-linked list.
# class ListNode:
#     def __init__(self, val=0, next=None):
#         self.val = val
#         self.next = next
class Solution:
    def reorderList(self, head: Optional[ListNode]) -> None:
        """
        Do not return anything, modify head in-place instead.
        """
        
```

You are given the head of a singly linked-list. The list can be represented as:

`L0 → L1 → … → Ln - 1 → Ln`

_Reorder the list to be on the following form:_

`L0 → Ln → L1 → Ln - 1 → L2 → Ln - 2 → …`

You may not modify the values in the list's nodes. Only nodes themselves may be changed.

**Example 1:**  
![](!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240227110311.png)  
**Input:** `head = [1,2,3,4]`  
**Output:** `[1,4,2,3]`  

**Example 2:**  
![](!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240227110327.png)  
**Input:** `head = [1,2,3,4,5]`  
**Output:** `[1,5,2,4,3]`  

**Constraints:**
- The number of nodes in the list is in the range `[1, 5 * 10^4]`.
- `1 <= Node.val <= 1000`

---

# Brute/direct
```
"""stack"""
class Solution:
    def reorderList(self, head: Optional[ListNode]) -> None:
        st = []
        cur = head
        while cur != None:
            st.append(cur)
            cur = cur.next
            
        for i in range(len(st) // 2):
            nxt = head.next
            head.next = st.pop()
            head = head.next
            head.next = nxt
            head = head.next
            
        if head != None:
            head.next = None


"""array"""
class Solution:
    def reorderList(self, head: ListNode) -> None:		
        arr = []
        cur, length = head, 0
        while cur:
            arr.append(cur)
            cur, length = cur.next, length + 1
		
        left, right = 0, length-1
        last = head
        
        while left < right:
            arr[left].next = arr[right]
            left += 1
            
            if left == right: 
                last = arr[right]
                break
                
            arr[right].next = arr[left]
            right -= 1
            
            last = arr[left]
        
        if last:
            last.next= 

"""array: alternative way to loop the linking"""
class Solution:
    def reorderList(self, head):
        arr, Iter = [], head
        while Iter:
            arr.append(Iter)
            Iter = Iter.next
        
        L, R = 1, len(arr)-1
        for i in range(len(arr)):
            if i & 1:                    # odd iteration
                head.next = arr[L]
                L += 1
            else:                        # even iteration
                head.next = arr[R]
                R -= 1
            head = head.next
        head.next = None

```
- use a data structure to make it very easy to determine how to link nodes
	- dynamic array
		- add all nodes to an dynamic array (ie can be resized; bc we dont know length of linked list), in order
		- then it's easy to just iterate indices on both ends, to link
			- example:
				- Once the array is filled, we initialize two variables `L` and `R` which denotes the current positions on the two ends from which we need to re-order the list in alternate fashion
				- In odd iteration, we assign the next node as `arr[L]` and move the `L` pointer ahead
				- In even iteration, we assign the next node as `arr[R]` and move the `R` pointer backward
				- This will re-order the list as alternating nodes from start and end as required.
	- stack
		- add all nodes to a stack
		- then between every two nodes, insert the one in the top of the stack
- complexity
	- O(n) time
	- O(n) space






# Recursion (???)

```
"""alternative"""

class Solution:
    def reorderList(self, head: Optional[ListNode]) -> None:
        start=end=head
        self.lLen=0
        self.start=head
        def rePosition(node,mid):
            if not node:
                self.lLen=mid
                return
            rePosition(node.next,mid+1)  #go till end of list
            if mid>self.lLen//2:  #for all node greated than the midpos, change its connection
                temp=self.start.next
                self.start.next=node
                self.start=temp
                node.next=self.start
            if mid==self.lLen//2: # once we reach the middle, make its next as None
                node.next=None
        rePosition(end,0)
        return head


"""clean"""
def reorderList(self, head: Optional[ListNode]) -> None:

	def rec(root: ListNode, cur: ListNode) -> ListNode:
		if not cur:
			return root
		root = rec(root, cur.next)

		if not root:
			return None
		tmp = None
		if root == cur or root.next == cur:
			cur.next = None
		else:
			tmp = root.next
			root.next = cur
			cur.next = tmp
		return tmp
		
	return rec(head, head.next)
```

- complexity
	- time
	- space
		- probly O(n) bc call stack



# 'chain techniques'



```
class Solution:
    def reorderList(self, head: ListNode) -> None:
        # find middle
        slow, fast = head, head.next
        while fast and fast.next:
            slow = slow.next
            fast = fast.next.next

        # reverse second half
        second = slow.next
        prev = slow.next = None
        while second:
            tmp = second.next
            second.next = prev
            prev = second
            second = tmp

        # merge two halfs
        first = head
        second = prev      # This is now the head of the reversed second half
        while second:
            tmp1, tmp2 = first.next, second.next
            first.next = second
            second.next = tmp1
            first, second = tmp1, tmp2
```


- strategy
	- Step 1: Find the middle of the linked list
		- be careful, it needs to work properly both for even and for odd number of nodes. 
		- For this we can either just count number of elements and then divide it by to, and do two traversals of list. 
		- Or we can use slow/fast iterators trick, where slow moves with speed 1 and fast moves with speed 2. Then when fast reches the end, slow will be in the middle, as we need.
			- We use the fast and slow pointer technique to find the middle of the linked list.
			- The slow pointer advances one node at a time, while the fast pointer advances two nodes at a time. When the fast pointer either reaches the end of the list or the node before the end, the slow pointer will be at the middle of the list.
			- a 2nd fast pointer that moves 2 nodes at a time, stopping only in the case when either our fast pointer reaches null, or fast's next pointer is null. By starting the slow pointer at the first node, and the fast pointer at the second node, we will always end off in the case of the slow node being left at the end of the first half, ready to move on to the second half. In the case of an odd number of nodes, the first half will be larger too, which allows for an easy merge.
				- see example below
	- Step 2: Reverse the last half of the linked list.
		- see [206. Reverse Linked List](206.%20Reverse%20Linked%20List.md)
		- The idea is to keep **three** pointers: `prev, curr, nextt` stand for previous, current and next and change connections in place. Do not forget to use `slow.next = None`, in opposite case you will have list with loop.
	- Step 3: Merge 2 list one by one.
		- see [21. Merge Two Sorted Lists](21.%20Merge%20Two%20Sorted%20Lists.md)
		- Finally, we need to merge two lists, given its heads. These heads are denoted by `head`and `prev`, so for simplisity I created `head1` and `head2` variables. What we need to do now is to interchange nodes: we put `head2` as next element of `head1` and then say that `head1` is now `head2` and `head2` is previous `head1.next`. In this way we do one step for one of the lists and rename lists, so next time we will take element from `head2`, then rename again and so on.
- complexity
	- O(n) time
		- do `O(n)` iterations to find middle, then we do `O(n)` iterations to reverse second half and finally we do `O(n)` iterations to merge lists.
	- O(1) space
- note
	- Can someone explain why `slow.next = None` is needed after reversing the second half of the linked list? I don't quite understand how removing it will result in a loop.
		- Without that line, `slow.next` will point to the last node in the _first half_ of the list. This will result in a cycle.
		- ie, the last node of first half list is still directed to the second list. In order to change that we have to set to None, else it will be a cycle.
		- For example, for list `[1,2,3,4,5,6]`, `slow.next = None` breaks it into `[1,2,3]` and `[6,5,4]`. Otherwise, we have `[1,2,3,4]` and `[6,5,4]`, which results in a cycle in step 3.



- note: this 'reversing' step is mandatory
	- linked list goes in one direction; this is why the 'reversing' has ot be its own step.
	- aka there's no way to: move a pointer all the way to the end, and then start directly linking stuff from both ends; bc the pointer at the end has no way go backwards
	- aka thats why the mid pointer is so important: this is where we start the reversal process


## pointer
Example:
```
0 -> 1 -> 2 -> 3 -> 4-> null
s    f
     s         f          
          s             f
```
Here we can see that when it ends, by moving our slow pointer to the second half, we have a split of 0->1->2->null and 3->4->null. We can also imagine in the case of a 4 node linked list, the split would be even: 0->1->null and 2->3->null.
