LeetCode/198. House Robber.md, before:

[198. House Robber](https://leetcode.com/problems/house-robber/)

```python
class Solution:
    def rob(self, nums: List[int]) -> int:
        
```

# Description

You are a professional robber planning to rob houses along a street. Each house has a certain amount of money stashed, the only constraint stopping you from robbing each of them is that adjacent houses have security systems connected and **it will automatically contact the police if two adjacent houses were broken into on the same night**.

Given an integer array `nums` representing the amount of money of each house, return _the maximum amount of money you can rob tonight **without alerting the police**_.

**Example 1:**  
**Input:** `nums = [1,2,3,1]`  
**Output:** `4`  
**Explanation:** Rob house 1 (money = 1) and then rob house 3 (money = 3).  
Total amount you can rob = 1 + 3 = 4.

**Example 2:**  
**Input:** `nums = [2,7,9,3,1]`  
**Output:** `12`
**Explanation:** Rob house 1 (money = 2), rob house 3 (money = 9) and rob house 5 (money = 1).  
Total amount you can rob = 2 + 9 + 1 = 12.

**Constraints:**
- `1 <= nums.length <= 100`
- `0 <= nums[i] <= 400`

---


# Approaches

```python
class Solution:
    def rob(self, nums: List[int]) -> int:
        rob1, rob2 = 0, 0

        for n in nums:
            temp = max(n + rob1, rob2)
            rob1 = rob2
            rob2 = temp
        return rob2

```

Commit message:

graphs, dp, meta
- finished graphs
- halfway through 1d dynamic programming
- adjusted a lot of how i use obsidian ie style; ie im using tags for fundies

LeetCode/198. House Robber.md, after:

[198. House Robber](https://leetcode.com/problems/house-robber/)

```python
class Solution:
    def rob(self, nums: List[int]) -> int:
        
```

# Description

You are a professional robber planning to rob houses along a street. Each house has a certain amount of money stashed, the only constraint stopping you from robbing each of them is that adjacent houses have security systems connected and **it will automatically contact the police if two adjacent houses were broken into on the same night**.

Given an integer array `nums` representing the amount of money of each house, return _the maximum amount of money you can rob tonight **without alerting the police**_.

**Example 1:**  
**Input:** `nums = [1,2,3,1]`  
**Output:** `4`  
**Explanation:** Rob house 1 (money = 1) and then rob house 3 (money = 3).  
Total amount you can rob = 1 + 3 = 4.

**Example 2:**  
**Input:** `nums = [2,7,9,3,1]`  
**Output:** `12`
**Explanation:** Rob house 1 (money = 2), rob house 3 (money = 9) and rob house 5 (money = 1).  
Total amount you can rob = 2 + 9 + 1 = 12.

**Constraints:**
- `1 <= nums.length <= 100`
- `0 <= nums[i] <= 400`

---

# References

## #dynamic_programming 
- subp n is:
	- max money from robbing first n houses
- the constraint that we cannot rob adjacent houses means that:
	- `f(n)`, aka soln to subp n is:
		- max btwn `f(n-1)` or `f(n-2) + house_n` 





# Approaches

```python
class Solution:
    def rob(self, nums: List[int]) -> int:
        rob1, rob2 = 0, 0

        for n in nums:
            temp = max(n + rob1, rob2)
            rob1 = rob2
            rob2 = temp
        return rob2

```
