LeetCode/213. House Robber II.md, before:

[213. House Robber II](https://leetcode.com/problems/house-robber-ii/)

```python
class Solution:
    def rob(self, nums: List[int]) -> int:
        
```

# Description

You are a professional robber planning to rob houses along a street. Each house has a certain amount of money stashed. All houses at this place are **arranged in a circle.** That means the first house is the neighbor of the last one. Meanwhile, adjacent houses have a security system connected, and **it will automatically contact the police if two adjacent houses were broken into on the same night**.

Given an integer array `nums` representing the amount of money of each house, return _the maximum amount of money you can rob tonight **without alerting the police**_.

**Example 1:**  
**Input:** `nums = [2,3,2]`  
**Output:** `3`  
**Explanation:** You cannot rob house 1 (money = 2) and then rob house 3 (money = 2), because they are adjacent houses.

**Example 2:**  
**Input:** `nums = [1,2,3,1]`  
**Output:** `4`  
**Explanation:** Rob house 1 (money = 1) and then rob house 3 (money = 3).  
Total amount you can rob = 1 + 3 = 4.

**Example 3:**  
**Input:** `nums = [1,2,3]`  
**Output:** `3`

**Constraints:**
- `1 <= nums.length <= 100`
- `0 <= nums[i] <= 1000`

---


# Approaches

```python
class Solution:
    def rob(self, nums: List[int]) -> int:
        return max(nums[0], self.helper(nums[1:]), self.helper(nums[:-1]))

    def helper(self, nums):
        rob1, rob2 = 0, 0

        for n in nums:
            newRob = max(rob1 + n, rob2)
            rob1 = rob2
            rob2 = newRob
        return rob2

```

Commit message:

graphs, dp, meta
- finished graphs
- halfway through 1d dynamic programming
- adjusted a lot of how i use obsidian ie style; ie im using tags for fundies

LeetCode/213. House Robber II.md, after:

[213. House Robber II](https://leetcode.com/problems/house-robber-ii/)

```python
class Solution:
    def rob(self, nums: List[int]) -> int:
        
```

# Description

You are a professional robber planning to rob houses along a street. Each house has a certain amount of money stashed. All houses at this place are **arranged in a circle.** That means the first house is the neighbor of the last one. Meanwhile, adjacent houses have a security system connected, and **it will automatically contact the police if two adjacent houses were broken into on the same night**.

Given an integer array `nums` representing the amount of money of each house, return _the maximum amount of money you can rob tonight **without alerting the police**_.

**Example 1:**  
**Input:** `nums = [2,3,2]`  
**Output:** `3`  
**Explanation:** You cannot rob house 1 (money = 2) and then rob house 3 (money = 2), because they are adjacent houses.

**Example 2:**  
**Input:** `nums = [1,2,3,1]`  
**Output:** `4`  
**Explanation:** Rob house 1 (money = 1) and then rob house 3 (money = 3).  
Total amount you can rob = 1 + 3 = 4.

**Example 3:**  
**Input:** `nums = [1,2,3]`  
**Output:** `3`

**Constraints:**
- `1 <= nums.length <= 100`
- `0 <= nums[i] <= 1000`

---


# References
## #problem_solving/circular
- tbd
	- solve circular via non-circular
		- here, non-circular is [[198. House Robber]]
	- if non-circular problem is simpler/efficient to solve:
		- determine if soln to circular problem can be computed from solns to non-circular
		- then decide if you get an overall efficient algo via this process

## #dynamic_programming 
- 


# Approaches

```python
class Solution:
    def rob(self, nums: List[int]) -> int:
        return max(nums[0], self.helper(nums[1:]), self.helper(nums[:-1]))

    def helper(self, nums):
        rob1, rob2 = 0, 0

        for n in nums:
            newRob = max(rob1 + n, rob2)
            rob1 = rob2
            rob2 = newRob
        return rob2

```
