LeetCode/22. Generate Parentheses.md, before:

[22. Generate Parentheses](https://leetcode.com/problems/generate-parentheses/)

```
class Solution:
    def generateParenthesis(self, n: int) -> List[str]:
        
```

Given `n` pairs of parentheses, write a function to _generate all combinations of well-formed parentheses_.

**Example 1:**  
**Input:** `n = 3`  
**Output:** `["((()))","(()())","(())()","()(())","()()()"]`  

**Example 2:**  
**Input:** `n = 1`  
**Output:** `["()"]`  

**Constraints:**
- `1 <= n <= 8`

---

# todo
- why is the "bottom-up" approach correct?
	- ie why is the "inner/outer" claim correct?
- figure out the "name" i give the for the "approaches" and "observations"
	- ie for the "backtracking": seems the "observation" is like: "iteratively add a left or right parenthesis in a valid way"
	- for "bottom-up":...??
- some of the code snippets have odd indentation on github?
	- probly mix of 4 spaces vs tabs...
- "backtracking"
	- a lot of the backtracking 'variants' should be combined in one heading. bc these choices aren't really the key idea:
		- recursive vs iteration
		- specific inequalities/conditions to allow left or right parenthesis
		- doing the 'validity' check before sending to children, or after receiving from parent
			- ie there's two 'orders' ways you can ensure correctness of what you're creating.
			- kinda like 'pre-order' vs 'post-order' (is this correct jargon?)
				- pre: before you send the command to your children, you decide whether it'd be valid for your children to create it, end only send to the children for which it's valid
				- post: if curr node was valid, then you just send it to your children; let the children decide if they're valid
	- (but still have code that covers the variants; ie recursive + first condition; and iterative + second condition)
	- the key idea here is:
		- we're doing something similar to brute force approach: we build out the substrings from left to right, by at each index, you build the left and right path
			- so that's why total possibilities is power set
		- but the key idea: the brute force approach is doing extra work
			- instead: only go down left or right path (ie keep producing a child substring), if it's valid
			- and there's a bunch of typical ways you can state these valid conditions
				- option 1:
					- left is less than n, or right is less than left
				- option 2
					- number of open parentheses you have left
					- (so like inverse of left less than n)
					- (so you start with left=n; and left path is valid until left=0)
				- option 3
	- the other key idea is the 'don't keep substrings in memory the whole time'
		- ie optimization that actually does feel like 'backtracking'
		- otoh: i dont think this asymptotically improves space complexity (just the constant might be better)
		- the technique:
			- there's just one stack and you just like backtrack back and forth
			- the stack is the only thing that holds the 'current substring being built during this call'
			- the recursion call stack holds 'which substrings need to be built'
			- this is different from other approaches: bc they hold the 'substring being built' for all the 'substrings that need to be built'
			- so this 'backtracking method' is like
				- space: O(max size of recursion call stack) + O(max size of string)
			- versus the other approaches, it's not adding: it's multiplying:
				- O(max size of recursion/iteration stack) x O(max size of string)
		- this technique actually feels like backtracking, bc:
			- you actually go 'backwards': you try all left paths, then you go back and pop, and try the soonest right path possible...and then maybe keep going...etc etc
		- idk why some ppl call this technique "string references"
- the dynamic programming is a completely different 'idea' vs 'backtracking' idea: 
	- basically 2 diff ways to think about how this problem can be broken down into 'subproblems'
		- option 1: for each index, you choose left or right bracket
		- option 2: how do we generate options for n pairs, if we alrdy know options for k pairs (for all k < n)
			- then it seems the key observation that enables this is this idea of: choose left/inner and right/outer
- question i need to answer:
	- (in the DP approach) why is the "left/inner and right/outer" idea correct? like why does this generate the solution
	- i don't have a good explanation for this yet
- what is time complexity of DP approach?
	- time complexity of DP approach is NOT `n^4`
		- lots of ppl seem to make the mistake: i think their argument is:
			- there's 4 nested loops
			- each loop has n possibilities
		- but this second point is wrong!
			- the last 2 loops have catalan number possibilities
			- ie the number of iterations in those loops, is the number of solutions for whatever the k is
	- this makes me think the time complexity of the DP approach is actually much worse than the 'backtracking' approach
		- bc you generate solutions for every single n; not just the final solution n?
		- otoh...when you generate a solution at a level...point is you get to skip a lot of 'computations' bc you just directly sub in solutions for smaller pairs
		- wait maybe time complexity is equivalent
	- the space complexity is definitely asymptotitcally worse than 'optimized' backtracking
	- (figure out if one of the approaches has asymptotically better time)




# Brute force
- strategy
	- recursively generate all possible combos
	- once a combo is formed, ie the base/return case:
		- use an aux function `isValidParentheses` to check if it is well-formed
			- if so, store it
- complexity
	- time: $O(2^{2n} \cdot 2n)$
	- space: nth catalan number
		- bc we dont actually store every combo; we only store the ones that are well-formed

# "Backtracking"
```
"""ITERATIVE/stack"""
class Solution:
    def generateParenthesis(self, n: int) -> List[str]:
        result = []
        left = right = 0
        q = [(left, right, '')]
        while q:
            left, right, s = q.pop()
            if len(s) == 2 * n:
                result.append(s)
            if left < n:
                q.append((left + 1, right, s + '('))
            if right < left:
                q.append((left, right + 1, s + ')'))
        return result



"""RECURSION"""
def generateParenthesis(self, n: int) -> List[str]:
	def dfs(left, right, s):
		if len(s) == n * 2:
			res.append(s)
			return 

		if left < n:
			dfs(left + 1, right, s + '(')

		if right < left:
			dfs(left, right + 1, s + ')')

	res = []
	dfs(0, 0, '')
	return res



"""alternative recursion, using diff cases"""
def generateParenthesis(self, n):
    if not n:
        return []
    left, right, ans = n, n, []
    self.dfs(left,right, ans, "")
    return ans

def dfs(self, left, right, ans, string):
    if right < left:
        return
    if not left and not right:
        ans.append(string)
        return
    if left:
        self.dfs(left-1, right, ans, string + "(")
    if right:
        self.dfs(left, right-1, ans, string + ")")


```


- (todo) what is the correct jargon here? so many things being thrown around
	- iterative, stack, recursion, backtracking, dfs
		- tbh: the space optimized solution seems like backtracking, because the calls/code actually does go 'backwards' and undo stuff after it completes things
		- the unoptimized version just seems like normal recursion
	- apparently:
		- recursion is stack, bc call stack
		- backtracking is more specific than recursion
		- iterative version of recursive function, uses a stack you create manually
		- dfs uses a stack
	- hardway, algomonster, hiepit all call it backtracking
		- use dfs to facilitate; aka to generate combinations
- observation
	- improve the brute force solution:
		- don't waste time completing a substring that you already know has no chance to be well-formed
- observation
	- equivalent conditions to "well-formed parentheses"
		- ![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240307170509.png)
	- assuming that your approach is via building parenthesis that are potentially balanced: (ie never unbalanced yet): then you know that you have a well-formed string once either happen:
		- string length is 2n
		- num left is n, and num right is n
	- the way you immediately discard unbalanced attempts: if any happen:
		- l-r<0
			- aka l < r
		- n < l
		- n < r (though this alrdy be enforced by the above two)
	- If we have an even amount of open and close parentheses, we can only place an open parentheses, as there isn't anything to close. 
- note:
	- below strategy isn't the only way to implement the observations
		- see above, the 2 different recursions
		- and another way would be like: instead of keeping track of `right`; you keep track of how many unclosed left parenthesis you have, ie in a variable `open`; aka this tells you how many right parenthesis you can add...aka `open = left-right`
		- point is, these are all the same...so i dont think its important to focus on the particular choice; myexplanation here needs to be higher level (todo)
- strategy
	1. The idea is to add `')'` only after valid `'('`
	2. We use two integer variables `left` & `right` to see how many `'('` & `')'` are in the current string
	3. If `left < n` then we can add `'('` to the current string
	4. If `right < left` then we can add `')'` to the current string
	- ![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240307221347.png)
- 
- complexity
	- vaguely, we know it is something like O(2^n), but less; because we're basically pruning some of the branches of all possible combos
	- Since it is Catalan number sequence, the complexity cannot be less that O(4^n / n^(3/2))
	- See the Asymptotic approximation of Catalan Numbers


![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240307221415.png)



![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240307170021.png)

- strategy
	- We add left or "(" parenthesis while not reaching the pair limit = n.
	- We add right or ")" only if we have added same number of left before to make sure the parathesis string is correct.
- jargon
	- it is backtracking (not just recursion)
		- backtracking = constrained recursion
			- An example would be, in tree/graph problems we could either 'check first if next node is unvisited (constrained recursion) and then recurse on next node' or "recurse first on next node and then return from inside recursion if next node is visited (backtracking)
		- when a recursion call comes out within the condition "open < max", the next call to backtrack() within the condition "close < open" is made without an "("
		- ![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240307170751.png)



---


![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240307221443.png)
![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240307221513.png)



- optimization
	- (if this is asymptotically better space complexity, then maybe make this it's own heading)
	- 

```
"""
class Solution:
    def generateParenthesis(self, n: int) -> List[str]:
        stack = []
        res = []

        def backtrack(openN, closedN):
            if openN == closedN == n:
                res.append("".join(stack))
                return

            if openN < n:
                stack.append("(")
                backtrack(openN + 1, closedN)
                stack.pop()
            if closedN < openN:
                stack.append(")")
                backtrack(openN, closedN + 1)
                stack.pop()

        backtrack(0, 0)
        return res
```



it seems you use a stack to save space complexity?

![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240307170320.png)


code that aligns with recursion above:
![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240307170230.png)



alternatively can write it like:
![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240307170150.png)

![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240307170355.png)







# (todo) it's either DP or Memoization (better?)
```
class Solution:
    def generateParenthesis(self, n):
        ans = [[] for _ in range(n+1)]
        ans[0] = [""]
        for k in range(n + 1):
            for i in range(k):
                for left in ans[i]:
                    for right in ans[k-i-1]:
                        ans[k].append("(" + left + ")" + right)
        
        return ans[-1]
```
- jargon
	- bottom-up DP
	- ??? apparently it's actually top-down?
- observation
	- The key insight is that all well-formed parentheses follow the same pattern of `(left)right`, where `left` and `right` are themselves well-formed parentheses
	- For each valid parentheses there smallest `k`, for which the first `k` symbols compose well-formed parentheses: `(left)right`. 
- strategy
	- Let us `ans[i]` be all valid parentheses of length `i`. Then we can generate them using recursion. 
		- For every `k in range(n+1)` and for every `i in range(k)` we choose left part and right part and append it to final answer. 
- jargon
	- Because we memorize our intermediate results, we can also say that we use dp approach here.
- complexity
	- Time complexity is
		- (apparently this is wrong!) O(C_n * n) = O(4^n/n^0.5), where C_n is Catalan number. 
		- apparently it's actually n^4
			- aka dp might be much better....
			- the reason is apparently bc: the backtracking approach fully evaluates every subproblem every time
			- here, they're able to avoid overlapping subproblems
	- Space complexity is the same.

---

![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240307220706.png)

![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240307220735.png)

---

![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240307212849.png)
![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240307212949.png)


---


another explanation: (see comments as well)
https://leetcode.com/problems/generate-parentheses/solutions/10127/an-iterative-method/

interesting comments, in this link ie:
- (though i actually think this guy is wrong):
	- basically:
		- both approaches use the 'key insight' of how to break the problem into subproblems
		- ie they use the idea of building the solution to case n, from solutions of smaller problems
		- but the quadruple loops that ppl use above: it does seem like bottom-up..the way the loops happen, the build the solutions for lower cases first
		- versus this guy's recursive solution: well actually idk, he's building lower cases too...yea idk what this guy is talking about...his solution does use recursion, but it seems to be in a very stupid/unecessary way
		- GO CONFIRM WHAT 'bottom-up' is (check clrs)
- ![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240307220347.png)

Commit message:

added early voice memo changes

LeetCode/22. Generate Parentheses.md, after:

[22. Generate Parentheses](https://leetcode.com/problems/generate-parentheses/)

```
class Solution:
    def generateParenthesis(self, n: int) -> List[str]:
        
```

Given `n` pairs of parentheses, write a function to _generate all combinations of well-formed parentheses_.

**Example 1:**  
**Input:** `n = 3`  
**Output:** `["((()))","(()())","(())()","()(())","()()()"]`  

**Example 2:**  
**Input:** `n = 1`  
**Output:** `["()"]`  

**Constraints:**
- `1 <= n <= 8`

---

# todo
- what are the the techniques actually called (and understand them)
	- backtracking with references?
	- DP or memo?
- why is the "bottom-up" approach correct?
	- ie why is the "inner/outer" claim correct?
- figure out the "name" i give the for the "approaches" and "observations"
	- ie for the "backtracking": seems the "observation" is like: "iteratively add a left or right parenthesis in a valid way"
	- for "bottom-up":...??
- some of the code snippets have odd indentation on github?
	- probly mix of 4 spaces vs tabs...
- "backtracking"
	- a lot of the backtracking 'variants' should be combined in one heading. bc these choices aren't really the key idea:
		- recursive vs iteration
		- specific inequalities/conditions to allow left or right parenthesis
		- doing the 'validity' check before sending to children, or after receiving from parent
			- ie there's two 'orders' ways you can ensure correctness of what you're creating.
			- kinda like 'pre-order' vs 'post-order' (is this correct jargon?)
				- pre: before you send the command to your children, you decide whether it'd be valid for your children to create it, end only send to the children for which it's valid
				- post: if curr node was valid, then you just send it to your children; let the children decide if they're valid
	- (but still have code that covers the variants; ie recursive + first condition; and iterative + second condition)
	- the key idea here is:
		- we're doing something similar to brute force approach: we build out the substrings from left to right, by at each index, you build the left and right path
			- so that's why total possibilities is power set
		- but the key idea: the brute force approach is doing extra work
			- instead: only go down left or right path (ie keep producing a child substring), if it's valid
			- and there's a bunch of typical ways you can state these valid conditions
				- option 1:
					- left is less than n, or right is less than left
				- option 2
					- number of open parentheses you have left
					- (so like inverse of left less than n)
					- (so you start with left=n; and left path is valid until left=0)
				- option 3
	- the other key idea is the 'don't keep substrings in memory the whole time'
		- ie optimization that actually does feel like 'backtracking'
		- otoh: i dont think this asymptotically improves space complexity (just the constant might be better)
		- the technique:
			- there's just one stack and you just like backtrack back and forth
			- the stack is the only thing that holds the 'current substring being built during this call'
			- the recursion call stack holds 'which substrings need to be built'
			- this is different from other approaches: bc they hold the 'substring being built' for all the 'substrings that need to be built'
			- so this 'backtracking method' is like
				- space: O(max size of recursion call stack) + O(max size of string)
			- versus the other approaches, it's not adding: it's multiplying:
				- O(max size of recursion/iteration stack) x O(max size of string)
		- this technique actually feels like backtracking, bc:
			- you actually go 'backwards': you try all left paths, then you go back and pop, and try the soonest right path possible...and then maybe keep going...etc etc
		- idk why some ppl call this technique "string references"
- the dynamic programming is a completely different 'idea' vs 'backtracking' idea: 
	- basically 2 diff ways to think about how this problem can be broken down into 'subproblems'
		- option 1: for each index, you choose left or right bracket
		- option 2: how do we generate options for n pairs, if we alrdy know options for k pairs (for all k < n)
			- then it seems the key observation that enables this is this idea of: choose left/inner and right/outer
- question i need to answer:
	- (in the DP approach) why is the "left/inner and right/outer" idea correct? like why does this generate the solution
	- i don't have a good explanation for this yet
- what is time complexity of DP approach?
	- time complexity of DP approach is NOT `n^4`
		- lots of ppl seem to make the mistake: i think their argument is:
			- there's 4 nested loops
			- each loop has n possibilities
		- but this second point is wrong!
			- the last 2 loops have catalan number possibilities
			- ie the number of iterations in those loops, is the number of solutions for whatever the k is
	- this makes me think the time complexity of the DP approach is actually much worse than the 'backtracking' approach
		- bc you generate solutions for every single n; not just the final solution n?
		- otoh...when you generate a solution at a level...point is you get to skip a lot of 'computations' bc you just directly sub in solutions for smaller pairs
		- wait maybe time complexity is equivalent
	- the space complexity is definitely asymptotitcally worse than 'optimized' backtracking
	- (figure out if one of the approaches has asymptotically better time)




# Brute force
- strategy
	- recursively generate all possible combos
	- once a combo is formed, ie the base/return case:
		- use an aux function `isValidParentheses` to check if it is well-formed
			- if so, store it
- complexity
	- time: $O(2^{2n} \cdot 2n)$
	- space: nth catalan number
		- bc we dont actually store every combo; we only store the ones that are well-formed

# "Backtracking"
```
"""ITERATIVE/stack"""
class Solution:
    def generateParenthesis(self, n: int) -> List[str]:
        result = []
        left = right = 0
        q = [(left, right, '')]
        while q:
            left, right, s = q.pop()
            if len(s) == 2 * n:
                result.append(s)
            if left < n:
                q.append((left + 1, right, s + '('))
            if right < left:
                q.append((left, right + 1, s + ')'))
        return result



"""RECURSION"""
def generateParenthesis(self, n: int) -> List[str]:
	def dfs(left, right, s):
		if len(s) == n * 2:
			res.append(s)
			return 

		if left < n:
			dfs(left + 1, right, s + '(')

		if right < left:
			dfs(left, right + 1, s + ')')

	res = []
	dfs(0, 0, '')
	return res



"""alternative recursion, using diff cases"""
def generateParenthesis(self, n):
    if not n:
        return []
    left, right, ans = n, n, []
    self.dfs(left,right, ans, "")
    return ans

def dfs(self, left, right, ans, string):
    if right < left:
        return
    if not left and not right:
        ans.append(string)
        return
    if left:
        self.dfs(left-1, right, ans, string + "(")
    if right:
        self.dfs(left, right-1, ans, string + ")")


```


- (todo) what is the correct jargon here? so many things being thrown around
	- iterative, stack, recursion, backtracking, dfs
		- tbh: the space optimized solution seems like backtracking, because the calls/code actually does go 'backwards' and undo stuff after it completes things
		- the unoptimized version just seems like normal recursion
	- apparently:
		- recursion is stack, bc call stack
		- backtracking is more specific than recursion
		- iterative version of recursive function, uses a stack you create manually
		- dfs uses a stack
	- hardway, algomonster, hiepit all call it backtracking
		- use dfs to facilitate; aka to generate combinations
- observation
	- improve the brute force solution:
		- don't waste time completing a substring that you already know has no chance to be well-formed
- observation
	- equivalent conditions to "well-formed parentheses"
		- ![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240307170509.png)
	- assuming that your approach is via building parenthesis that are potentially balanced: (ie never unbalanced yet): then you know that you have a well-formed string once either happen:
		- string length is 2n
		- num left is n, and num right is n
	- the way you immediately discard unbalanced attempts: if any happen:
		- l-r<0
			- aka l < r
		- n < l
		- n < r (though this alrdy be enforced by the above two)
	- If we have an even amount of open and close parentheses, we can only place an open parentheses, as there isn't anything to close. 
- note:
	- below strategy isn't the only way to implement the observations
		- see above, the 2 different recursions
		- and another way would be like: instead of keeping track of `right`; you keep track of how many unclosed left parenthesis you have, ie in a variable `open`; aka this tells you how many right parenthesis you can add...aka `open = left-right`
		- point is, these are all the same...so i dont think its important to focus on the particular choice; myexplanation here needs to be higher level (todo)
- strategy
	1. The idea is to add `')'` only after valid `'('`
	2. We use two integer variables `left` & `right` to see how many `'('` & `')'` are in the current string
	3. If `left < n` then we can add `'('` to the current string
	4. If `right < left` then we can add `')'` to the current string
	- ![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240307221347.png)
- 
- complexity
	- vaguely, we know it is something like O(2^n), but less; because we're basically pruning some of the branches of all possible combos
	- Since it is Catalan number sequence, the complexity cannot be less that O(4^n / n^(3/2))
	- See the Asymptotic approximation of Catalan Numbers


![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240307221415.png)



![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240307170021.png)

- strategy
	- We add left or "(" parenthesis while not reaching the pair limit = n.
	- We add right or ")" only if we have added same number of left before to make sure the parathesis string is correct.
- jargon
	- it is backtracking (not just recursion)
		- backtracking = constrained recursion
			- An example would be, in tree/graph problems we could either 'check first if next node is unvisited (constrained recursion) and then recurse on next node' or "recurse first on next node and then return from inside recursion if next node is visited (backtracking)
		- when a recursion call comes out within the condition "open < max", the next call to backtrack() within the condition "close < open" is made without an "("
		- ![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240307170751.png)



---


![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240307221443.png)
![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240307221513.png)



- optimization
	- (if this is asymptotically better space complexity, then maybe make this it's own heading)
	- 

```
"""
class Solution:
    def generateParenthesis(self, n: int) -> List[str]:
        stack = []
        res = []

        def backtrack(openN, closedN):
            if openN == closedN == n:
                res.append("".join(stack))
                return

            if openN < n:
                stack.append("(")
                backtrack(openN + 1, closedN)
                stack.pop()
            if closedN < openN:
                stack.append(")")
                backtrack(openN, closedN + 1)
                stack.pop()

        backtrack(0, 0)
        return res
```



it seems you use a stack to save space complexity?

![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240307170320.png)


code that aligns with recursion above:
![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240307170230.png)



alternatively can write it like:
![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240307170150.png)

![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240307170355.png)







# (todo) it's either DP or Memoization (better?)
```
class Solution:
    def generateParenthesis(self, n):
        ans = [[] for _ in range(n+1)]
        ans[0] = [""]
        for k in range(n + 1):
            for i in range(k):
                for left in ans[i]:
                    for right in ans[k-i-1]:
                        ans[k].append("(" + left + ")" + right)
        
        return ans[-1]
```
- jargon
	- bottom-up DP
	- ??? apparently it's actually top-down?
- observation
	- The key insight is that all well-formed parentheses follow the same pattern of `(left)right`, where `left` and `right` are themselves well-formed parentheses
	- For each valid parentheses there smallest `k`, for which the first `k` symbols compose well-formed parentheses: `(left)right`. 
- strategy
	- Let us `ans[i]` be all valid parentheses of length `i`. Then we can generate them using recursion. 
		- For every `k in range(n+1)` and for every `i in range(k)` we choose left part and right part and append it to final answer. 
- jargon
	- Because we memorize our intermediate results, we can also say that we use dp approach here.
- complexity
	- Time complexity is
		- (apparently this is wrong!) O(C_n * n) = O(4^n/n^0.5), where C_n is Catalan number. 
		- apparently it's actually n^4
			- aka dp might be much better....
			- the reason is apparently bc: the backtracking approach fully evaluates every subproblem every time
			- here, they're able to avoid overlapping subproblems
	- Space complexity is the same.

---

![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240307220706.png)

![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240307220735.png)

---

![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240307212849.png)
![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240307212949.png)


---


another explanation: (see comments as well)
https://leetcode.com/problems/generate-parentheses/solutions/10127/an-iterative-method/

interesting comments, in this link ie:
- (though i actually think this guy is wrong):
	- basically:
		- both approaches use the 'key insight' of how to break the problem into subproblems
		- ie they use the idea of building the solution to case n, from solutions of smaller problems
		- but the quadruple loops that ppl use above: it does seem like bottom-up..the way the loops happen, the build the solutions for lower cases first
		- versus this guy's recursive solution: well actually idk, he's building lower cases too...yea idk what this guy is talking about...his solution does use recursion, but it seems to be in a very stupid/unecessary way
		- GO CONFIRM WHAT 'bottom-up' is (check clrs)
- ![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240307220347.png)
