[224. Basic Calculator](https://leetcode.com/problems/basic-calculator/)

```python
class Solution:
    def calculate(self, s: str) -> int:
        
```

# Description

Given a string `s` representing a valid expression, implement a basic calculator to evaluate it, and return _the result of the evaluation_.

**Note:** You are **not** allowed to use any built-in function which evaluates strings as mathematical expressions, such as `eval()`.

**Example 1:**  
**Input:** `s = "1 + 1"`  
**Output:** `2`  

**Example 2:**  
**Input:** `s = " 2-1 + 2 "`  
**Output:** `3`  

**Example 3:**  
**Input:** `s = "(1+(4+5+2)-3)+(6+8)"`  
**Output:** `23`  

**Constraints:**
- `1 <= s.length <= 3 * 10^5`
- `s` consists of digits, `'+'`, `'-'`, `'('`, `')'`, and `' '`.
- `s` represents a valid expression.
- `'+'` is **not** used as a unary operation (i.e., `"+1"` and `"+(2 + 3)"` is invalid).
- `'-'` could be used as a unary operation (i.e., `"-1"` and `"-(2 + 3)"` is valid).
- There will be no two consecutive operators in the input.
- Every number and running calculation will fit in a signed 32-bit integer.

---



# todo


#/problems 
- likely can cover a huge variety/examples of stack/recursion problems from parsing
	- (but likely no need to go too deep...)
- bg
	- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Parsing#Types_of_parsers
	- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Parsing#List_of_parsing_algorithms




#/meta 
- 'finding the right level of generalization' for tags: no need to try to find it myself
	- just copy halim
	- whatever category he puts something in: it's the right name
		- and if i'm confused, it just means i don't actually understand it yet
		- aka go find some more refs/problems until i understand why the category is called that
	- ie now i understand why he put the [[224. Basic Calculator]] problem under 'input parsing (recursive)'




# References


## #strings/parsing


- https://open.kattis.com/problems/calculator
	- this is [[772. Basic Calculator III]]
	- halim categorizes this as: 'string processing > ad hoc (harder) > input parsing > recursive'
	- [[../_secondary/01 competitive programming/halim2.pdf#page=63&selection=117,0,117,25|halim2, page 63]]


- parsing
	- 2 ops and parenthesis
		- [[224. Basic Calculator]]
	- 4 ops, NO parenthesis
		- [[227. Basic Calculator II]]
	- 4 ops and parenthesis
		- [[772. Basic Calculator III]]
	- 3 ops, parenthesis, variables
		- [770. Basic Calculator IV](https://leetcode.com/problems/basic-calculator-iv/)


- variants
	- [282. Expression Add Operators](https://leetcode.com/problems/expression-add-operators/)
		- aka [[../_secondary/01 competitive programming/epi.pdf#page=491&offset=-115,488,0|epi, 25.27 Synthesize an expression]]
			- determine an operator assignment such that the resulting expression takes on a specified value


---


- infix notation
	- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Infix_notation
	- [[224. Basic Calculator]]
- postfix notation
	- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reverse_Polish_notation
	- [[150. Evaluate Reverse Polish Notation]]




---

BACKGROUND and JARGON



- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Recursive_descent_parser
- 
!!!!!
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Parsing#Lookahead
	- jargon: shift (push), reduce (pop and form), lookahead
	- see the examples!!
- also: 
	- [[../_courses/cmu/15-411-s24/08-parsing.pdf|08-parsing]]
	- !!! [[../_courses/cmu/15-411-s24/09-predictive.pdf|09-predictive]]
	- !!! [[../_courses/cmu/15-150-s20/parsing.pdf|parsing]]
		- 3.2
		- Here is the general idea: We attempt to construct a leftmost derivation of the candidate string by a left-to-right scan using one symbol of look-ahead. By “one symbol of lookahead” we mean that we decide which rule to apply at each step based solely on the next character of input; no decisions are deferred as they were in the case of operator-precedence parsing
- https://link.springer.com/book/10.1007/978-3-319-52789-5



- 'top-down parsing' is like the true recursive algos
	- watson2017 4.2.3
	- seems these are 'most general'
	- so i should def have these solutions, bc they can applied to more situations
- the 'backtracking' and 'predictive' approaches are only possible bc of 'trivial' structure of these LC problems


	- predictive vs backtracking
	- watson2017: 4.2.3.1
	- fairly certain the 'lookahead' here for most lc problems will be trivial
		- bc upon open bracket, immediately know to start new 'token' or w/e





---


- seems one part of handling parsing, is how you handle nesting:
	- the idea that:
		- repeatedly nested stuff can be handled iteratively
			- (well obvi...bc all recursion can be done iteratively)
		- but importantly:
			- 'end parenthesis' basically indicate that you should actually 'compute' something with what 'current storage'
			- 'start parenthesis' indicate that you should 'restart' the 'current storage'
				- ie move it into 'longer term storage' aka the stack
	- maybe/imo generalization here:
		- the 'start' indicator for a nest and the 'end' indicator for a nest, give you actionable things to do
			- to prevent having to backtrack, or having complicated recursion/aux function logic

- other difficulties that can arise during parsing:
	- operator precedence









# Strategies



- https://algo.monster/liteproblems/224
- https://github.com/doocs/leetcode/tree/main/solution/0200-0299/0224.Basic%20Calculator


```python
class Solution:
  def calculate(self, s: str) -> int:
    ans = 0
    num = 0
    sign = 1
    stack = [sign]  # stack[-1]: the current environment's sign

    for c in s:
      if c.isdigit():
        num = num * 10 + (ord(c) - ord('0'))
      elif c == '(':
        stack.append(sign)
      elif c == ')':
        stack.pop()
      elif c == '+' or c == '-':
        ans += sign * num
        sign = (1 if c == '+' else -1) * stack[-1]
        num = 0

    return ans + sign * num
```