LeetCode/269. Alien Dictionary.md, before:

[269. Alien Dictionary](https://neetcode.io/problems/foreign-dictionary)

```python
class Solution:
    def alienOrder(self, words: List[str]) -> str:
    
```

# Description

There is a new alien language that uses the English alphabet. However, the order among the letters is unknown to you.

You are given a list of strings `words` from the alien language's dictionary, where the strings in `words` are **sorted lexicographically** by the rules of this new language.

Return _a string of the unique letters in the new alien language sorted in **lexicographically increasing order** by the new language's rules. If there is no solution, return `""`. If there are multiple solutions, return **any of them**_.

A string `s` is **lexicographically smaller** than a string `t` if at the first letter where they differ, the letter in `s` comes before the letter in `t` in the alien language. If the first `min(s.length, t.length)` letters are the same, then `s` is smaller if and only if `s.length < t.length`.

**Example 1:**  
**Input:** `words = ["wrt","wrf","er","ett","rftt"]`  
**Output:** `"wertf"`  

**Example 2:**  
**Input:** `words = ["z","x"]`  
**Output:** `"zx"`  

**Example 3:**  
**Input:** `words = ["z","x","z"]`  
**Output:** `""`  
**Explanation:** The order is invalid, so return `""`.

**Constraints:**
- `1 <= words.length <= 100`
- `1 <= words[i].length <= 100`
- `words[i]` consists of only lowercase English letters.

---


# Approaches



- https://leetcode.ca/2016-08-25-269-Alien-Dictionary/

## neetcode

```python
class Solution:
    def alienOrder(self, words: List[str]) -> str:
        adj = {char: set() for word in words for char in word}

        for i in range(len(words) - 1):
            w1, w2 = words[i], words[i + 1]
            minLen = min(len(w1), len(w2))
            if len(w1) > len(w2) and w1[:minLen] == w2[:minLen]:
                return ""
            for j in range(minLen):
                if w1[j] != w2[j]:
                    print(w1[j], w2[j])
                    adj[w1[j]].add(w2[j])
                    break

        visited = {}  # {char: bool} False visited, True current path
        res = []

        def dfs(char):
            if char in visited:
                return visited[char]

            visited[char] = True

            for neighChar in adj[char]:
                if dfs(neighChar):
                    return True

            visited[char] = False
            res.append(char)

        for char in adj:
            if dfs(char):
                return ""

        res.reverse()
        return "".join(res)

```

Commit message:

graphs, dp, meta
- finished graphs
- halfway through 1d dynamic programming
- adjusted a lot of how i use obsidian ie style; ie im using tags for fundies

LeetCode/269. Alien Dictionary.md, after:

[269. Alien Dictionary](https://neetcode.io/problems/foreign-dictionary)

```python
class Solution:
    def alienOrder(self, words: List[str]) -> str:
    
```

# Description

There is a new alien language that uses the English alphabet. However, the order among the letters is unknown to you.

You are given a list of strings `words` from the alien language's dictionary, where the strings in `words` are **sorted lexicographically** by the rules of this new language.

Return _a string of the unique letters in the new alien language sorted in **lexicographically increasing order** by the new language's rules. If there is no solution, return `""`. If there are multiple solutions, return **any of them**_.

A string `s` is **lexicographically smaller** than a string `t` if at the first letter where they differ, the letter in `s` comes before the letter in `t` in the alien language. If the first `min(s.length, t.length)` letters are the same, then `s` is smaller if and only if `s.length < t.length`.

**Example 1:**  
**Input:** `words = ["wrt","wrf","er","ett","rftt"]`  
**Output:** `"wertf"`  

**Example 2:**  
**Input:** `words = ["z","x"]`  
**Output:** `"zx"`  

**Example 3:**  
**Input:** `words = ["z","x","z"]`  
**Output:** `""`  
**Explanation:** The order is invalid, so return `""`.

**Constraints:**
- `1 <= words.length <= 100`
- `1 <= words[i].length <= 100`
- `words[i]` consists of only lowercase English letters.

---



# References


# #sorting/lexicographic_order 
- realize that for any two words: the only info you can extract about character order, is the first entry where these words differ
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lexicographic_order


## DAGs
- can represent relationships implied by input using a graph
	- letters are vertices
	- directed edge (x,y) if x comes before y
- so a major step in this problem is building the graph
	- (aka meat of the problem)
	- from understanding lexicographic order above:
		- simply compare adjacent words: we will be able to extract exactly 1 edge 
			- corresp to the first place where these words di



## #graphs/topological_sort
- the second step of the strategy; seems this part is very standard


# Approaches






- https://leetcode.ca/2016-08-25-269-Alien-Dictionary/

## neetcode

```python
class Solution:
    def alienOrder(self, words: List[str]) -> str:
        adj = {char: set() for word in words for char in word}

        for i in range(len(words) - 1):
            w1, w2 = words[i], words[i + 1]
            minLen = min(len(w1), len(w2))
            if len(w1) > len(w2) and w1[:minLen] == w2[:minLen]:
                return ""
            for j in range(minLen):
                if w1[j] != w2[j]:
                    print(w1[j], w2[j])
                    adj[w1[j]].add(w2[j])
                    break

        visited = {}  # {char: bool} False visited, True current path
        res = []

        def dfs(char):
            if char in visited:
                return visited[char]

            visited[char] = True

            for neighChar in adj[char]:
                if dfs(neighChar):
                    return True

            visited[char] = False
            res.append(char)

        for char in adj:
            if dfs(char):
                return ""

        res.reverse()
        return "".join(res)

```
