[278. First Bad Version](https://leetcode.com/problems/first-bad-version/)

You are a product manager and currently leading a team to develop a new product. Unfortunately, the latest version of your product fails the quality check. Since each version is developed based on the previous version, all the versions after a bad version are also bad.

Suppose you have `n` versions `[1, 2, ..., n]` and you want to find out the first bad one, which causes all the following ones to be bad.

You are given an API `bool isBadVersion(version)` which returns whether `version` is bad. Implement a function to find the first bad version. You should minimize the number of calls to the API.

**Example 1:**  
**Input:** `n = 5, bad = 4`  
**Output:** `4`  
**Explanation:**  
```
call isBadVersion(3) -> false
call isBadVersion(5) -> true
call isBadVersion(4) -> true
Then 4 is the first bad version.
```

**Example 2:**  
**Input:** `n = 1, bad = 1`  
**Output:** `1`  

**Constraints:**
- `1 <= bad <= n <= 2^31 - 1`

---
# binary search
```
""" ITERATIVE """
class Solution:
    def firstBadVersion(self, n: int) -> int:
        l, r = 1, n
        while l < r:
            v = (l + r) // 2
            if isBadVersion(v):
                r = v
            else:
                l = v + 1
        return l


""" RECURSIVE """
(todo)
```

- strategy
	- modified binary search
		- ensure bad version is always within inclusive range `[left,right]`
		- we adjust `left` or `right` based on the property: "all the versions after a bad version are also bad":
			- if `mid` is bad
				- then first bad is either `mid` or earlier
				- so we now know bad is in `[left,mid]`
			- if `mid` is good
				- then first bad is strictly after `mid`
				- so bad must be in `[mid+1,right]`
		- once `left==right`, return either
- common errors
	- note `left = 1` bc versions start at 1, not 0
- note
	- this isn't identical to binary search because:
		- we know the key exists; ie search won't fail
		- we're not searching for a key; what we're really searching for is the index where
			- `isBadVersion(i) == true`
			- if version `i-1` exists, then `isBadVersion(i-1) == false`
		- (so you can't modify code so that it's "3 cases" like binary search...bc that's not how the cases in this problem work)