[41. First Missing Positive](https://leetcode.com/problems/first-missing-positive/)

```python
class Solution:
    def firstMissingPositive(self, nums: List[int]) -> int:
        
```

# Description

Given an unsorted integer array `nums`. Return the _smallest positive integer_ that is _not present_ in `nums`.

You must implement an algorithm that runs in `O(n)` time and uses `O(1)` auxiliary space.

**Example 1:**  
**Input:** `nums = [1,2,0]`  
**Output:** `3`  
**Explanation:** The numbers in the range `[1,2]` are all in the array.

**Example 2:**  
**Input:** `nums = [3,4,-1,1]`  
**Output:** `2`  
**Explanation:** 1 is in the array but 2 is missing.

**Example 3:**  
**Input:** `nums = [7,8,9,11,12]`  
**Output:** `1`  
**Explanation:** The smallest positive integer 1 is missing.

**Constraints:**
- `1 <= nums.length <= 10^5`
- `-2^31 <= nums[i] <= 2^31 - 1`

---

# todo

#/fundy 
- cycle sort problems
	- check the ‘similar questions’ listed for this problems
	- also https://leetcode.com/problems/first-missing-positive/editorial/comments/2319009
	- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cycle_sort
	- i suspect the general use case is like:
		- you want to solve the problem with sort
		- you already know the solution can only be in range [0,n] or something like that
		- It is not particularly about Cycle sort. In general, it is about sorting. You could solve the problems of finding all the duplicates or the first missing positive by using sorting approach. Once the input array is sorted, we can easily identify the duplicate values and the first missing value. For this problem, we actually ignore the duplicates and zero and negative values as if they do not exist in the array. What we are sorting is only the sequence of positive adjacent values such as 1, 2, 3, 4, and so on. Then by ignoring the redundant values, we only look for the first missing positive through the sorted sequence 1, 2, 3, 4
- fundy ideas:
	- check the discussion page for this problem


# References

## #complexity 
- the problem says we need O(1) space
	- typically, solution does not count towards this
	- here, solution is just a number, so it itself is O(1)
	- this means: total space we can use, including solution, is O(1)
	- so if we want to use a ‘container’ structure, we have to modify the input container in-place
- ie cannot do the ‘trivial’ solution:

```python
def firstMissingPositive_2(self, nums: List[int]) -> int:
	new = set(nums)
	i = 1
	while i in new:
		i += 1
	return i
```


- also, the problem says O(n) time
	- so we cannot sort in place and then just traverse through

## tbd (when can you use input as storage)
- there’s a pattern here that i’ve kinda seen in other problems
	- where you realize that the ‘solution’ is bounded by length of the input array
		- or rather ‘solution candidates’

- once you realize this, then there’s like 2 strats you can use:
	- swap entries (solution candidates) in input structure to their correct location
	- overload input structure
		- imo this is not as good…it’s like too adhoc for this problem imo
		- it’s true it’s like same vibe as overloading (space optimization) when doing ‘dfs on matrix of non-neg integers’
			- but that pattern/tech shows up so many times



## tbd (structure needs to have enough info)
- these don’t work: pass through array and keep track of:
	- smallest elt found so far
		- incorrect if 1 appears, and 2 is the solution
	- smallest interval containing the solution
		- it starts at (1,n)
		- problem is that we can only adjust this if we see a 1 or an n
		- ie if you see a 2…how can you adjust this?
			- can’t say (1,2), bc if you see a 1 later, then you’re screwed
			- can’t say (2,n), bc what if you never see a 1 later
- i feel like there should be some kind of ‘abstract’ reason why the above don’t work
	- vaguely: the above attempts: the structure does not hold enough info for us
	- ie we really do need a full structure
	- our solution is basically like, ‘finding the first gap’
		- so a single number or interval can’t help us here




# Strategies


## cyclic sort
- https://leetcode.com/problems/first-missing-positive/editorial/
	- approach 3
- https://algo.monster/liteproblems/41
	- seems to do ‘continuous swapping’
		- see code example below: i suspect this isn’t necessary, and also i feel like just makes the code harder to understand?
			- (unless this is typical of cyclic sort)
- apparently important subtlety: observe `nums[i] != nums[correctIdx]`
	- It handles the cases where:
		- value not in correct position
		- duplicate is encountered

```python
# does not seem do ‘continuous’ swapping
class Solution: 
	def firstMissingPositive(self, nums: List[int]) -> int: 
		i = 0
		while i < len(nums):
			# set all 0 and negatives nums above the possible solution 
			nums[i] = nums[i] if nums[i] > 0 else len(nums) + 1 
			# do a cyclic sort on nums ranging from 1..inf, skipping numbers 
			# that are above the the possible solution 
			correct_i = nums[i] - 1 
		
			if nums[i] < len(nums) and nums[i] != nums[correct_i]:
				nums[i], nums[correct_i] = nums[correct_i], nums[i]
			else:
				i += 1
				
		# find the first number missing from its index
		for i in range(len(nums)):
			if nums[i] != i + 1:
				return i + 1
				
		return len(nums) + 1
```

## overload

#/jargon confirm that 'overload' is the correct jargon?

- https://leetcode.com/problems/first-missing-positive/editorial/
	- approach 2
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8g78yfzMlao
	- strat:
		- pre-process pass: modify entries that are useful for determining solution
			- aka anything less than 0
				- apparently better: anything outside of `(0,len(A))`
					- In the first round, setting all values less than zero and greater than N with the default value N+1 simplifies the coding a lot
		- compute overloads:
			- change to negative val or negative sentinel val, to indicate what vals exist
		- compute solution from overloads




```python
class Solution:
    def firstMissingPositive(self, nums: List[int]) -> int:
        A = nums
        for i in range(len(A)):
            if A[i] < 0:
                A[i] = 0
            
        for i in range(len(A)):
            val = abs(A[i])
            if 1 <= val <= len(A):
                if A[val - 1] > 0:
                    A[val - 1] *= -1
                elif A[val - 1] == 0:
                    A[val - 1] = -1 * (len(A) + 1)
        
        for i in range( 1, len(A)+ 1):
            if A[i -1] >= 0:
                return i
        
        return len(A) + 1
        

```
