LeetCode/424. Longest Repeating Character Replacement.md, before:

[424. Longest Repeating Character Replacement](https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-repeating-character-replacement/)

You are given a string `s` and an integer `k`. You can choose any character of the string and change it to any other uppercase English character. You can perform this operation at most `k` times.

Return _the length of the longest substring containing the same letter you can get after performing the above operations_.

**Example 1:**  
**Input:** `s = "ABAB", k = 2`  
**Output:** `4`  
**Explanation:** Replace the two 'A's with two 'B's or vice versa.  

**Example 2:**  
**Input:** `s = "AABABBA", k = 1`  
**Output:** `4`  
**Explanation:** Replace the one 'A' in the middle with 'B' and form "AABBBBA".  
The substring "BBBB" has the longest repeating letters, which is 4.  
There may exists other ways to achieve this answer too.  

**Constraints:**
- `1 <= s.length <= 10^5`
- `s` consists of only uppercase English letters.
- `0 <= k <= s.length`

---

# Brute force
- strategy
	- for every substring
		- perform a replacement (see below)
		- determine longest substring and compute length
- observation
	- how should we perform the replacement?
		- remember: it's brute force; so:
			- find a 'simple' way in 'english'
			- 'simple' way doesn't need to always be the 'best' way for every substring
				- BUT: it should work for enough substrings that it guarantees that we find the answer
	- 



# Sliding window

Commit message:

blurb on brute force
inspired by leetcode 424

LeetCode/424. Longest Repeating Character Replacement.md, after:

[424. Longest Repeating Character Replacement](https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-repeating-character-replacement/)

You are given a string `s` and an integer `k`. You can choose any character of the string and change it to any other uppercase English character. You can perform this operation at most `k` times.

Return _the length of the longest substring containing the same letter you can get after performing the above operations_.

**Example 1:**  
**Input:** `s = "ABAB", k = 2`  
**Output:** `4`  
**Explanation:** Replace the two 'A's with two 'B's or vice versa.  

**Example 2:**  
**Input:** `s = "AABABBA", k = 1`  
**Output:** `4`  
**Explanation:** Replace the one 'A' in the middle with 'B' and form "AABBBBA".  
The substring "BBBB" has the longest repeating letters, which is 4.  
There may exists other ways to achieve this answer too.  

**Constraints:**
- `1 <= s.length <= 10^5`
- `s` consists of only uppercase English letters.
- `0 <= k <= s.length`

---
# Brute force
- strategy
	- for every substring `t` of `s`
		- perform replacements
			- 
		- determine longest 'repeating character' substring `u` of `t`
		- compute length of `u`





# Sliding window
