[435. Non-overlapping Intervals](https://leetcode.com/problems/non-overlapping-intervals/)

```python
class Solution:
    def eraseOverlapIntervals(self, intervals: List[List[int]]) -> int:
        
```

# Description

Given an array of intervals `intervals` where `intervals[i] = [start_i, end_i]`, return _the minimum number of intervals you need to remove to make the rest of the intervals non-overlapping_.

**Example 1:**  
**Input:** `intervals = [[1,2],[2,3],[3,4],[1,3]]`  
**Output:** `1`  
**Explanation:** `[1,3]` can be removed and the rest of the intervals are non-overlapping.

**Example 2:**  
**Input:** `intervals = [[1,2],[1,2],[1,2]]`  
**Output:** `2`  
**Explanation:** You need to remove two `[1,2]` to make the rest of the intervals non-overlapping.

**Example 3:**  
**Input:** `intervals = [[1,2],[2,3]]`  
**Output:** `0`  
**Explanation:** You don't need to remove any of the intervals since they're already non-overlapping.

**Constraints:**
- `1 <= intervals.length <= 10^5`
- `intervals[i].length == 2`
- `-5 * 10^4 <= start_i < end_i <= 5 * 10^4`

---

# todo

- switch the code so that i sort by end, and so subroutine will more directly align with the greedy inspo
	- ie https://algo.monster/liteproblems/435

- neetcode vid/repo seems to sort by start, not end
	- his code is still correct by he uses `min` in the subroutine
	- but this definitely isn’t the standard approach
	- is it worth trying to cleanly explain why his code is equivalent?
		- if so…this isn’t urgent at all, so just save it for far future

# References

## #python/builtins_sort 

- what is the default behavior of python sort on containers
	- iirc lexicographic?
- aka: cuz here, the neetcode repo code: you just call sort (with no kwargs) on a container of containers
- but if you want to sort by ends: this is why you need to do the kwarg key + lambda function

## #greedy/interval_scheduling

- classic problem
	- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Interval_scheduling
	- 
- solution:
	- pick among remaining intervals with earliest end time
- this problem:
	- easy to be more space efficient bc we only have to return a ‘number’/‘length’ (? #/jargon), not an actual sequence of intervals (ie ‘candidate’? #/jargon)


#/meta 
- i should look for more greedy algos in other sources
- i will definitely need supllement resources outside of halim, bc they dont cover everything that is asked in leetcode, bc its not common in IOI/ICPC. for example, 'job scheduling' problems seems like a major class that they leave out
	- [[../_secondary/01 competitive programming/halim1.pdf#page=191&selection=63,83,71,63|halim1, page 191]]

## #polya/complement
- question is complement of asking:
	- what is max num non-overlapping intervals

- #/meta: i think the ‘polya’ tag group is a good abbrev for ‘math problem solving’ heuristic


# Strategies

## neetcode

```python
class Solution:
    def eraseOverlapIntervals(self, intervals: List[List[int]]) -> int:
        intervals.sort()
        res = 0
        prevEnd = intervals[0][1]
        for start, end in intervals[1:]:
            if start >= prevEnd:
                prevEnd = end
            else:
                res += 1
                prevEnd = min(end, prevEnd)
        return res

```