LeetCode/46. Permutations.md, before:

[46. Permutations](https://leetcode.com/problems/permutations/)

```python
class Solution:
    def permute(self, nums: List[int]) -> List[List[int]]:

```

# Description

Given an array `nums` of distinct integers, return _all the possible permutations_. You can return the answer in **any order**.

**Example 1:**  
**Input:** `nums = [1,2,3]`  
**Output:** `[[1,2,3],[1,3,2],[2,1,3],[2,3,1],[3,1,2],[3,2,1]]`  

**Example 2:**  
**Input:** `nums = [0,1]`  
**Output:** `[[0,1],[1,0]]`  

**Example 3:**  
**Input:** `nums = [1]`  
**Output:** `[[1]]`

**Constraints:**
- `1 <= nums.length <= 6`
- `-10 <= nums[i] <= 10`
- All the integers of `nums` are **unique**.

---



# Results

## python deep copy lists
- meta
	- this problem might actually be the fundy
		- bc this might be the first time this comes up?
		- bc other than backtracking, idr having yet encountered other problems/approaches where we need to save 'snapshots' of 'mutating containers' (for backtracking: to add to our 'list of solutions')




# Approaches

- https://algo.monster/liteproblems/46
- https://leetcodethehardway.com/tutorials/basic-topics/backtracking#example-0046---permutations-medium



```python
class Solution:
    def permute(self, nums: List[int]) -> List[List[int]]:
        res = []

        # base case
        if len(nums) == 1:
            return [nums[:]]  # nums[:] is a deep copy

        for i in range(len(nums)):
            n = nums.pop(0)
            perms = self.permute(nums)

            for perm in perms:
                perm.append(n)
            res.extend(perms)
            nums.append(n)
        return res

```

Commit message:

finished all neetcode templates; finished optimal through backtracking

LeetCode/46. Permutations.md, after:

[46. Permutations](https://leetcode.com/problems/permutations/)

```python
class Solution:
    def permute(self, nums: List[int]) -> List[List[int]]:

```

# Description

Given an array `nums` of distinct integers, return _all the possible permutations_. You can return the answer in **any order**.

**Example 1:**  
**Input:** `nums = [1,2,3]`  
**Output:** `[[1,2,3],[1,3,2],[2,1,3],[2,3,1],[3,1,2],[3,2,1]]`  

**Example 2:**  
**Input:** `nums = [0,1]`  
**Output:** `[[0,1],[1,0]]`  

**Example 3:**  
**Input:** `nums = [1]`  
**Output:** `[[1]]`

**Constraints:**
- `1 <= nums.length <= 6`
- `-10 <= nums[i] <= 10`
- All the integers of `nums` are **unique**.

---


# References

## backtracking basics
- see [78. Subsets](78.%20Subsets.md)
	- covers the 'skiena general template for backtracking'
- todo: explain the 'variables' in this problem wrt skiena's template
	- main difference: 'valid next neighbors' are just 'all unused numbers in current partial permutation'


## aux functions in python
- aka inner functions
- instead of passing parameters; can often just modify a mutable container
	- aka take advantage of nonlocal scope
	- ie https://algo.monster/liteproblems/46



# Results

## python deep copy lists
- meta
	- this problem might actually be the fundy
		- bc this might be the first time this comes up?
		- bc other than backtracking, idr having yet encountered other problems/approaches where we need to save 'snapshots' of 'mutating containers' (for backtracking: to add to our 'list of solutions')




# Approaches



- the neetcode example is not good code!
	- change it to match skiena
		- ie - https://algo.monster/liteproblems/46
		- 



```python
class Solution:
    def permute(self, nums: List[int]) -> List[List[int]]:
        res = []

        # base case
        if len(nums) == 1:
            return [nums[:]]  # nums[:] is a deep copy

        for i in range(len(nums)):
            n = nums.pop(0)
            perms = self.permute(nums)

            for perm in perms:
                perm.append(n)
            res.extend(perms)
            nums.append(n)
        return res

```
