LeetCode/51. N-Queens.md, before:

[51. N-Queens](https://leetcode.com/problems/n-queens/)

```python
class Solution:
    def solveNQueens(self, n: int) -> List[List[str]]:
        
```

# Description

The **n-queens** puzzle is the problem of placing `n` queens on an `n x n` chessboard such that no two queens attack each other.

Given an integer `n`, return _all distinct solutions to the **n-queens puzzle**_. You may return the answer in **any order**.

Each solution contains a distinct board configuration of the n-queens' placement, where `'Q'` and `'.'` both indicate a queen and an empty space, respectively.

**Example 1:**  
![](!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240417140746.png)  
**Input:** `n = 4`  
**Output:** `[[".Q..","...Q","Q...","..Q."],["..Q.","Q...","...Q",".Q.."]]`  
**Explanation:** There exist two distinct solutions to the 4-queens puzzle as shown above

**Example 2:**  
**Input:** `n = 1`  
**Output:** `[["Q"]]`  

**Constraints:**
- `1 <= n <= 9`

---


# Approaches

```python
class Solution:
    def solveNQueens(self, n: int) -> List[List[str]]:
        col = set()
        posDiag = set()  # (r + c)
        negDiag = set()  # (r - c)

        res = []
        board = [["."] * n for i in range(n)]

        def backtrack(r):
            if r == n:
                copy = ["".join(row) for row in board]
                res.append(copy)
                return

            for c in range(n):
                if c in col or (r + c) in posDiag or (r - c) in negDiag:
                    continue

                col.add(c)
                posDiag.add(r + c)
                negDiag.add(r - c)
                board[r][c] = "Q"

                backtrack(r + 1)

                col.remove(c)
                posDiag.remove(r + c)
                negDiag.remove(r - c)
                board[r][c] = "."

        backtrack(0)
        return res

```

Commit message:

finished all neetcode templates; finished optimal through backtracking

LeetCode/51. N-Queens.md, after:

[51. N-Queens](https://leetcode.com/problems/n-queens/)

```python
class Solution:
    def solveNQueens(self, n: int) -> List[List[str]]:
        
```

# Description

The **n-queens** puzzle is the problem of placing `n` queens on an `n x n` chessboard such that no two queens attack each other.

Given an integer `n`, return _all distinct solutions to the **n-queens puzzle**_. You may return the answer in **any order**.

Each solution contains a distinct board configuration of the n-queens' placement, where `'Q'` and `'.'` both indicate a queen and an empty space, respectively.

**Example 1:**  
![](!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240417140746.png)  
**Input:** `n = 4`  
**Output:** `[[".Q..","...Q","Q...","..Q."],["..Q.","Q...","...Q",".Q.."]]`  
**Explanation:** There exist two distinct solutions to the 4-queens puzzle as shown above

**Example 2:**  
**Input:** `n = 1`  
**Output:** `[["Q"]]`  

**Constraints:**
- `1 <= n <= 9`

---

# References

## structures for collision checks


# Results
## labeling/enumerating diagonals on a matrix



# Approaches


## backtracking + collisions

- https://algo.monster/liteproblems/51
- https://leetcodethehardway.com/solutions/0000-0099/n-queens-hard


```python
class Solution:
    def solveNQueens(self, n: int) -> List[List[str]]:
        col = set()
        posDiag = set()  # (r + c)
        negDiag = set()  # (r - c)

        res = []
        board = [["."] * n for i in range(n)]

        def backtrack(r):
            if r == n:
                copy = ["".join(row) for row in board]
                res.append(copy)
                return

            for c in range(n):
                if c in col or (r + c) in posDiag or (r - c) in negDiag:
                    continue

                col.add(c)
                posDiag.add(r + c)
                negDiag.add(r - c)
                board[r][c] = "Q"

                backtrack(r + 1)

                col.remove(c)
                posDiag.remove(r + c)
                negDiag.remove(r - c)
                board[r][c] = "."

        backtrack(0)
        return res

```
