[55. Jump Game](https://leetcode.com/problems/jump-game/)

```python
class Solution:
    def canJump(self, nums: List[int]) -> bool:
        
```

# Description

You are given an integer array `nums`. You are initially positioned at the array's **first index**, and each element in the array represents your maximum jump length at that position.

Return `true` _if you can reach the last index, or_ `false` _otherwise_.

**Example 1:**  
**Input:** `nums = [2,3,1,1,4]`  
**Output:** `true`  
**Explanation:** Jump 1 step from index 0 to 1, then 3 steps to the last index.

**Example 2:**  
**Input:** `nums = [3,2,1,0,4]`  
**Output:** `false`  
**Explanation:** You will always arrive at index 3 no matter what. Its maximum jump length is 0, which makes it impossible to reach the last index.

**Constraints:**
- `1 <= nums.length <= 10^4`
- `0 <= nums[i] <= 10^5`

---

# todo



#/meta 
- it's definitely worth mentioning when the 'non-expert consensus' is incorrect
	- ie [[55. Jump Game]]
		- the 'popular free leetcode resources' (ie neetcode; lc forums) all call the solution 'greedy'
		- EPI (aka an actual expert) puts this in their array section, NOT greedy
		- and nothing about the strat matches the descriptions/examples of greedy algos in textbooks


#/move 
- [[55. Jump Game]] needs to be put in the 'array' category; NOT greedy


#/strats 
- idk if it's worth, but maybe might as well for DP practice:
	- add DP solution for [[55. Jump Game]]
		- see 'brute force' section of
			- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yan0cv2cLy8&list=PLPe9IkX86X3y5m_MvtNu2ughxsvkqUNKr&index=123
			- (he optimizes it into DP)

#/strats
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yan0cv2cLy8&list=PLPe9IkX86X3y5m_MvtNu2ughxsvkqUNKr&index=123&t=610s
	- add this solution
	- again, imo this is not 'greedy'
	- this has simpler intuition than the forwards solution
	- same complexity for inputs that return true
		- less efficient for inputs that return false
		- bc the forwards solution will typically be able to break out earlier
		- but backwards needs to iterate fully
	- actually...i think the backwards can be considered greedy
		- remember that
		- 



#/strats 
- need to understand how to realize that this linear 'array' solution works
	- aka so i don't waste time trying a DP approach
	- maybe because:
		- this problem is NOT an optimization problem
		- we just care if it's possible or not
		- so there's very little that actually needs to be computed/stored
		- versus [[45. Jump Game II]]

		- #/fundy 
			- wait !!!
			- seems there are some major classes of problems:
				- optimization: find best/min/max way
				- 'count': find number of ways
				- binary: is it possible or not
			- and so maybe point is:
				- for optimization: probly dp, greedy, or d&c
				- for 'count': dp or 'hashing trick' (ie see [[494. Target Sum]] or [[46. Permutations]])
				- for 'binary': you probly dont need any of the above; can do some kind of super simple/efficient algo with a linear pass and constant space


# References


# Results

## #greedy
- the 'array' strat is NOT a greedy strat


# Strategies

## array


- i don't like the variable names here
- i like algomonster better, they call it 'max_reach'...imo call it 'curr_max_reach' or something
	- https://algo.monster/liteproblems/55
- each index tells you the max next index you can reach
	- so just iterate over each index and update 'curr_max_reach'
	- if ur on an index below the curr_max_reach, then means you could never get here or later...so answer is false


```python
class Solution:
    def canJump(self, nums: List[int]) -> bool:
        goal = len(nums) - 1

        for i in range(len(nums) - 2, -1, -1):
            if i + nums[i] >= goal:
                goal = i
        return goal == 0

```