LeetCode/57. Insert Interval.md, before:

[57. Insert Interval](https://leetcode.com/problems/insert-interval/)

You are given an array of non-overlapping intervals `intervals` where `intervals[i] = [start_i, end_i]` represent the start and the end of the `i^th` interval and `intervals` is sorted in ascending order by `start_i`. You are also given an interval `newInterval = [start, end]` that represents the start and end of another interval.

Insert `newInterval` into `intervals` such that `intervals` is still sorted in ascending order by `starti` and `intervals` still does not have any overlapping intervals (merge overlapping intervals if necessary).

Return `intervals` _after the insertion_.

**Example 1:**  
**Input:** `intervals = [[1,3],[6,9]], newInterval = [2,5]`  
**Output:** `[[1,5],[6,9]]`  

**Example 2:**  
**Input:** `intervals = [[1,2],[3,5],[6,7],[8,10],[12,16]], newInterval = [4,8]`  
**Output:** `[[1,2],[3,10],[12,16]]`  
**Explanation:** Because the new interval `[4,8]` overlaps with `[3,5],[6,7],[8,10]`.  

**Constraints:**
- `0 <= intervals.length <= 10^4`
- `intervals[i].length == 2`
- `0 <= start_i <= end_i <= 10^5`
- `intervals` is sorted by `start_i` in **ascending** order.
- `newInterval.length == 2`
- `0 <= start <= end <= 10^5`

---

# 'direct'

```
def insert(self, intervals, newInterval) -> List[List[int]]:
    i = 0               # intervals[:i] will be strictly left oldIntervals
    j = len(intervals)  # intervals[j:] will be strictly right oldIntervals
    for k in range(len(intervals)):
        interval = intervals[k]
        if interval[1] < newInterval[0]:
            i=k+1
        elif newInterval[1] < interval[0]:
            j = k
            break
        else:
            newInterval[0] = min(newInterval[0], interval[0])
            newInterval[1] = max(newInterval[1], interval[1])
    return intervals[:i] + [newInterval] + intervals[j:]
```

- observation
	- we don't merge if `oldInterval` and `newInterval` are disjoint
	- this happens if either occur (note both can occur):
		- old is fully before/left of new: `old[1] < new[0]`
		- old is fully after/right of new: `new[1] < old[0]`
- strategy
	- ignore oldIntervals strictly left and right of newInterval
	- merge everything else (aka stuff that overlaps with newInterval)
- complexity
	- O(n) time, where n is number of intervals
	- O(1) space
- minor optimizations
	- observe: old intervals are sorted by `start`
		- so once we encounter an old interval that starts strictly after, we can break; because we know the remaning old intervals also start strictly after 
	- we can merge outside the loop.
	- observe: oldIntervals don't overlap (and are sorted by start)
		- so if newInterval overlaps with multiple old intervals; there are actually only 2 merges that are needed: ie the final merged interval will have endpoints:
		- min of `intervals[i][0]` and `newInterval[0]`
		- max of `interval[j-1][1]` and `newInterval[1]`
- possible bugs/cases to confirm/think about
	- intervals is empty
	- only 1 oldInterval
	- need to make sure `intervals[i]` and `intervals[j-1]` actually exist
		- they will not if intervals is empty
		- ? when is this used in the code

Commit message:

finished converting memos to todo

LeetCode/57. Insert Interval.md, after:

[57. Insert Interval](https://leetcode.com/problems/insert-interval/)

```
class Solution:
    def insert(self, intervals: List[List[int]], newInterval: List[int]) -> List[List[int]]:
        
```

You are given an array of non-overlapping intervals `intervals` where `intervals[i] = [start_i, end_i]` represent the start and the end of the `i^th` interval and `intervals` is sorted in ascending order by `start_i`. You are also given an interval `newInterval = [start, end]` that represents the start and end of another interval.

Insert `newInterval` into `intervals` such that `intervals` is still sorted in ascending order by `starti` and `intervals` still does not have any overlapping intervals (merge overlapping intervals if necessary).

Return `intervals` _after the insertion_.

**Example 1:**  
**Input:** `intervals = [[1,3],[6,9]], newInterval = [2,5]`  
**Output:** `[[1,5],[6,9]]`  

**Example 2:**  
**Input:** `intervals = [[1,2],[3,5],[6,7],[8,10],[12,16]], newInterval = [4,8]`  
**Output:** `[[1,2],[3,10],[12,16]]`  
**Explanation:** Because the new interval `[4,8]` overlaps with `[3,5],[6,7],[8,10]`.  

**Constraints:**
- `0 <= intervals.length <= 10^4`
- `intervals[i].length == 2`
- `0 <= start_i <= end_i <= 10^5`
- `intervals` is sorted by `start_i` in **ascending** order.
- `newInterval.length == 2`
- `0 <= start <= end <= 10^5`

---

# todo
- almost certainly exists: O(log n) solution: go confirm it
	- uses optimization/ aka the fact that this is sorted:
		- run 2 passes of binary search, on starts and ends of array
		- this immediately tells you the at most 2 intervals that you need to run the ‘merge operation’ on
			- ie the first interval that intersects front; and last interval that intersects end
	- bc its sus: if unsorted input, the direct algo still works
		- is this general blurb? ‘if your technique still works for a more general input: possibly means your algo isnt optimal, bc ur not using full structure/constraints on input)




# 'direct'

```
def insert(self, intervals, newInterval) -> List[List[int]]:
    i = 0               # intervals[:i] will be strictly left oldIntervals
    j = len(intervals)  # intervals[j:] will be strictly right oldIntervals
    for k in range(len(intervals)):
        interval = intervals[k]
        if interval[1] < newInterval[0]:
            i=k+1
        elif newInterval[1] < interval[0]:
            j = k
            break
        else:
            newInterval[0] = min(newInterval[0], interval[0])
            newInterval[1] = max(newInterval[1], interval[1])
    return intervals[:i] + [newInterval] + intervals[j:]
```

- observation
	- we don't merge if `oldInterval` and `newInterval` are disjoint
	- this happens if either occur (note both can occur):
		- old is fully before/left of new: `old[1] < new[0]`
		- old is fully after/right of new: `new[1] < old[0]`
- strategy
	- ignore oldIntervals strictly left and right of newInterval
	- merge everything else (aka stuff that overlaps with newInterval)
- complexity
	- O(n) time, where n is number of intervals
	- O(1) space
- minor optimizations
	- observe: old intervals are sorted by `start`
		- so once we encounter an old interval that starts strictly after, we can break; because we know the remaning old intervals also start strictly after 
	- we can merge outside the loop.
	- observe: oldIntervals don't overlap (and are sorted by start)
		- so if newInterval overlaps with multiple old intervals; there are actually only 2 merges that are needed: ie the final merged interval will have endpoints:
		- min of `intervals[i][0]` and `newInterval[0]`
		- max of `interval[j-1][1]` and `newInterval[1]`
- possible bugs/cases to confirm/think about
	- intervals is empty
	- only 1 oldInterval
	- need to make sure `intervals[i]` and `intervals[j-1]` actually exist
		- they will not if intervals is empty
		- ? when is this used in the code
