[621. Task Scheduler](https://leetcode.com/problems/task-scheduler/)

```python
class Solution:
    def leastInterval(self, tasks: List[str], n: int) -> int:
        
```

# Description
You are given an array of CPU `tasks`, each represented by letters A to Z, and a cooling time, `n`. Each cycle or interval allows the completion of one task. Tasks can be completed in any order, but there's a constraint: **identical** tasks must be separated by at least `n` intervals due to cooling time.

​Return the _minimum number of intervals_ required to complete all tasks.

**Example 1:**  
**Input:** `tasks = ["A","A","A","B","B","B"], n = 2`  
**Output:** `8`  
**Explanation:** A possible sequence is: `A -> B -> idle -> A -> B -> idle -> A -> B`.  
After completing task A, you must wait two cycles before doing A again. The same applies to task B. In the 3rd interval, neither A nor B can be done, so you idle. By the 4th cycle, you can do A again as 2 intervals have passed.  

**Example 2:**  
**Input:** `tasks = ["A","C","A","B","D","B"], n = 1`  
**Output:** `6`  
**Explanation:** A possible sequence is: `A -> B -> C -> D -> A -> B`.  
With a cooling interval of 1, you can repeat a task after just one other task.  

**Example 3:**  
**Input:** `tasks = ["A","A","A", "B","B","B"], n = 3`  
**Output:** `10`  
**Explanation:** A possible sequence is: `A -> B -> idle -> idle -> A -> B -> idle -> idle -> A -> B`.  
There are only two types of tasks, A and B, which need to be separated by 3 intervals. This leads to idling twice between repetitions of these tasks.  

**Constraints:**
- `1 <= tasks.length <= 10^4`
- `tasks[i]` is an uppercase English letter.
- `0 <= n <= 100`

---


# References

## use structures to model the problem/solution
- (more precisely: model an ‘optimal schedule’ that achieves a solution time)
- see [853. Car Fleet](853.%20Car%20Fleet.md)
- here
	- to construct an optimal schedule:
		- at each time step: you want to do the task that is:
			- among the most frequent counts REMAINING
			- not on cooldown
	- so use structures:
		- dict to initialize counts
		- global var for time
			- for both solution and handling cooldowns
		- heap to track most frequent counts of tasks off cooldown
			- and decrement a task’s count when you perform it
		- queue to hold tasks on cooldown
			- bc everything is on same cd
			- push onto heap once off cd


## do we actually need the model
- see [853. Car Fleet](853.%20Car%20Fleet.md)
- if problem doesn’t ask for ‘example that achieves solution’:
	- then see if you can just ‘prove’ the solution





# Results




# todo

# Approaches



## modeling
- https://leetcodethehardway.com/solutions/0600-0699/task-scheduler-medium
	- approach 1
- ie, compute solution by essentially computing an actual schedule that achieves it

- apparent optimization? see youtube comment
	- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s8p8ukTyA2I&lc=Ugx0JvVpEgSWF2KQM2R4AaABAg



```python
class Solution:
    def leastInterval(self, tasks: List[str], n: int) -> int:
        count = Counter(tasks)
        maxHeap = [-cnt for cnt in count.values()]
        heapq.heapify(maxHeap)

        time = 0
        q = deque()  # pairs of [-cnt, idleTime]
        while maxHeap or q:
            time += 1

            if not maxHeap:
                time = q[0][1]
            else:
                cnt = 1 + heapq.heappop(maxHeap)
                if cnt:
                    q.append([cnt, time + n])
            if q and q[0][1] == time:
                heapq.heappush(maxHeap, q.popleft()[0])
        return time

```

## ‘prove/math’


```python
# lc the hardway
class Solution:
    def leastInterval(self, tasks: List[str], n: int) -> int:
        # Create our counter, and convert to a list.
        # O(m) time to counter unique tasks then O(k) time to convert
        # k unique values into a list.
        counter = list(Counter(tasks).values())
        # O(k) time to find the mode
        mode = max(counter)
        # O(k) time to count the occurences of the mode.
        mode_count = counter.count(mode)
        # find our answer using our formula
        ans = (mode - 1) * (n + 1) + mode_count
        # return larger of our answer, and length of the task list.
        return max(len(tasks), ans)

```

- todo
	- above code: do you need to convert the values to a list?


- observation 1:
	- obvious: "never idle" IFF "solution = len(tasks)"
	- because it's an IFF, then this immediately tells us:
		- "need idle" IFF "solution > len(tasks)"

- observation 2:
	- claim: if need idle, then an optimal schedule is "do batches of all modes as soon as off cd"
		- thus, if need idle, then "solution = len(optimal schedule) = formula"
	- proof:


- actually even if never idle, this would always be an optimal schedule
- oh maybe the key here is:
	- if you had to idle, then this probably means: your schedule msut look like:
		- both ends have batches of modes
		- 


### scratch

- attempts:
	- maybe the beauty here is that:
		- the above lets us: never actually need to figure out exactly 'when we idle'
			- or maybe more precisely: 'how we idle'
		- vaguely, we can just figure out some kind of quantity and then compare it with len(tasks)
	- kinda like:
		- if solution > len(tasks):
		- then we (somehow) know that the solution has to be the formula involving the modes
	- or: i need to find simple explanation for why 'idle' immediately means, solution is just in terms of modes


- i think what i'm looking for here: a relation:
	- "idle" IFF "solution = f(modes)"
		- where f(modes) is that equation i have in the heading below
	- which is then why, chaining IFF statements properly, then the algo can just be like:
		- `return max( f(modes), len(tasks) )`




- todo
	- figure out inspo behind the proof…?
		- i have the intuition
		- idk if ‘inspo’ is worth figuring out; at this point it’s just a math problem, and doesn’t make sense to essentially try to go through a bunch of combinatorics/etc background that probly won’t come up in other problems
	- https://algo.monster/liteproblems/621
	- https://leetcodethehardway.com/solutions/0600-0699/task-scheduler-medium
		- approach 2
	
	- imo this is not a ’greedy’ algorithm
		- this is just understanding/characterizing the nature of a solution
		- 

### long inspo attempt 1 

(most of this is completely unecessary)
(do keep the jargon and some of the formulas; will be useful in my short inspo attempt above)

- if we never idle, then solution is just length of list
	- so suffices to determine:
		- when do we need to idle
		- what is the solution if we need to idle
	- for both, it’s exactly determined by the modes
		- jargon: mode
			- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mode_(statistics)
			- numModes = number of modes
			- modeFreq = frequency of a mode
		- idling occurs if there aren’t enough non-mode tasks during mode cooldowns
		- question: how do we determine ‘enough’?
			- note
				- ‘clearly’, should just do all the modes in batches
				- so: available slots in each cooldown batch: it’s not `idle`
					- it gets eaten into by each ‘mode batch’
					- it is `idle + 1 - numModes`
				- `modeFreq - 1`: number of ‘cooldown batches’ (excluding final cd batch)
			- so: number of mode cooldown slots (excluding final cooldowns) is
				- `(modeFreq - 1) * (idle + 1 - numModes)`
			- and so: we want to know if “num non-mode tasks” will fill this
				- aka compare with: `tasks - numModes * modeFreq`
		- so then solution is simply: `(modeFreq - 1) * (idle + 1) + numModes`




