LeetCode/647. Palindromic Substrings.md, before:

[647. Palindromic Substrings](https://leetcode.com/problems/palindromic-substrings/)

```python
class Solution:
    def countSubstrings(self, s: str) -> int:
        
```

# Description

Given a string `s`, return _the number of **palindromic substrings** in it_.

A string is a **palindrome** when it reads the same backward as forward.

A **substring** is a contiguous sequence of characters within the string.

**Example 1:**  
**Input:** `s = "abc"`  
**Output:** `3`  
**Explanation:** `Three palindromic strings: "a", "b", "c".`

**Example 2:**  
**Input:** `s = "aaa"`  
**Output:** `6`  
**Explanation:** `Six palindromic strings: "a", "a", "a", "aa", "aa", "aaa".`

**Constraints:**
- `1 <= s.length <= 1000`
- `s` consists of lowercase English letters.

---

# Approaches

```python
class Solution:
    def countSubstrings(self, s: str) -> int:
        res = 0

        for i in range(len(s)):
            res += self.countPali(s, i, i)
            res += self.countPali(s, i, i + 1)
        return res

    def countPali(self, s, l, r):
        res = 0
        while l >= 0 and r < len(s) and s[l] == s[r]:
            res += 1
            l -= 1
            r += 1
        return res

```

Commit message:

graphs, dp, meta
- finished graphs
- halfway through 1d dynamic programming
- adjusted a lot of how i use obsidian ie style; ie im using tags for fundies

LeetCode/647. Palindromic Substrings.md, after:

[647. Palindromic Substrings](https://leetcode.com/problems/palindromic-substrings/)

```python
class Solution:
    def countSubstrings(self, s: str) -> int:
        
```

# Description

Given a string `s`, return _the number of **palindromic substrings** in it_.

A string is a **palindrome** when it reads the same backward as forward.

A **substring** is a contiguous sequence of characters within the string.

**Example 1:**  
**Input:** `s = "abc"`  
**Output:** `3`  
**Explanation:** `Three palindromic strings: "a", "b", "c".`

**Example 2:**  
**Input:** `s = "aaa"`  
**Output:** `6`  
**Explanation:** `Six palindromic strings: "a", "a", "a", "aa", "aa", "aaa".`

**Constraints:**
- `1 <= s.length <= 1000`
- `s` consists of lowercase English letters.

---


# #_move

- this problem should be cited by [[5. Longest Palindromic Substring]]
	- and should come before it
- bc that problem is more optimizations available
	- specifically: it can prune iterations for extremal centers; see voice memo
- move fundies from that problem into here



# Results

## #iteration/for_pruning 

copy from [[5. Longest Palindromic Substring]], and have that problem cite this


## #iteration/for_subroutine 

copy from [[5. Longest Palindromic Substring]], and have that problem cite this



# Strategies


## iterate for both subroutine and pruning

```python
class Solution:
    def countSubstrings(self, s: str) -> int:
        res = 0

        for i in range(len(s)):
            res += self.countPali(s, i, i)
            res += self.countPali(s, i, i + 1)
        return res

    def countPali(self, s, l, r):
        res = 0
        while l >= 0 and r < len(s) and s[l] == s[r]:
            res += 1
            l -= 1
            r += 1
        return res

```
