[67. Add Binary](https://leetcode.com/problems/add-binary/)

```python
class Solution:
    def addBinary(self, a: str, b: str) -> str:
        
```

# Description

Given two binary strings `a` and `b`, return _their sum as a binary string_.

**Example 1:**  
**Input:** `a = "11", b = "1"`  
**Output:** `"100"`  

**Example 2:**  
**Input:** `a = "1010", b = "1011"`  
**Output:** `"10101"`  

**Constraints:**
- `1 <= a.length, b.length <= 10^4`
- `a` and `b` consist only of `'0'` or `'1'` characters.
- Each string does not contain leading zeros except for the zero itself.

---

# todo


#/jargon 
- describe solutions where:
	- less optimal theoretically
	- but in practice, most efficient bc relying on python builtins, instead of manual loops


#/jargon 
- bit addition
- carry
- 

 #/fundy 
- is stringIO something that is useful?
	- https://realpython.com/python-string-concatenation/#concatenating-strings-with-stringio


#/move / #/fundy 
fundy for ord

typical use:
- convert char to int
- also typically subtract off the converted char of the 'start' of your alphabet
	- aka `ord('a')`


- https://realpython.com/python-strings/#ordc
	- Returns an integer value for the given character.
	- At the most basic level, computers store all information as [numbers](https://realpython.com/python-numbers/). To represent character data, a translation scheme is used which maps each character to its representative number.
	- The simplest scheme in common use is called [ASCII](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ASCII). It covers the common Latin characters you are probably most accustomed to working with. For these characters, `ord(c)` returns the ASCII value for character `c`:


- https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#ord
	- Given a string representing one Unicode character, return an integer representing the Unicode code point of that character. For example, `ord('a')` returns the integer `97` and `ord('€')` (Euro sign) returns `8364`. This is the inverse of [`chr()`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#chr "chr").


# References





## #python/divmod


- probly good to know how to manually use % and //, if i forget divmod
- reversing at beginning seems silly, bc now need to reverse 2 strings
	- just reverse at the end



## #python/strings/concatenation 

- string concat over an iterable/loop:
	- do not manually concat


- refs
	- https://stackoverflow.com/questions/37133547/time-complexity-of-string-concatenation-in-python
	- https://stackoverflow.com/questions/34008010/is-the-time-complexity-of-iterative-string-append-actually-on2-or-on
	- https://stackoverflow.com/questions/70499787/is-the-time-complexity-of-string-a-the-same-as-string-string-a
	- https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/94392
- so it seems: 
	- worst case is: quadratic and extra space
	- 'smarter' is what cpython apparently does now: in-place/reuses space of one of the strings
		- but still, linear time?
- btw: what do tehy mean by linear and quadratic...
	- bc if u just concat once,why would this ever be linear
	- i think they mean quadratic if in the 'common scenario' where: you're performing concat inside a loop, ie appending chars one at a time
	- so then 'lienar' time would be efficient, bc this means in the loop, its O(1) concat?
- summary
	- do not rely on looping string concat to be efficient


# Strategies


## python
#/strats
- python builtins
	- casting to int, adding, and then casting to binary
- (even if this doesnt end up scoring in highest percentiles: still probly worth knowing the python builtin to cast to binary)

## 'binary'

- similar to [[2. Add Two Numbers]], but binary rules
	- addition by hand
		- aka start with least significant digits
			- aka rightmost bits of the input
		- work our way to the most significant bit (left side)
	- track the carry
	- also similarly: likely an O(1) space optimization here
		- p sure i mentioned in that solution to lc2





- binary addition
	- Each bit can only be `0` or `1`
	- If the sum of two bits plus any carry from the previous bit is `2` or `3`, a carry of `1` is passed to the next left bit
		- for new entry at current bit
			- `0` if the sum is `2`
			- `1` if the sum is `3`

- other things
	- For positions where one of the strings may have run out of bits (because one string can be shorter than the other), we treat the missing bit as `0`
	- We also need to consider the possibility of a carry remaining after we've finished processing both strings.

- implementation choices
	- Once the iteration is complete, reverse the answer array to represent the binary sum in the proper order.
	- btw, the oneliner conditionals is just to handle if string is too short: you give it the 0 default value
		- btw #/jargon for oneliner conditional assignment?


- divmod
	- takes two numbers and returns a tuple containing their quotient and remainder
		- quotient = carry
		- remainder = new bit at this pos


- complexity
	- O(n) time
	- O(n) space from the answer array


- i don't like how the algomonster code is combining the addition step in one line
	- separate it out, like below

```python
for i in range(max(len(a), len(b))):
	bitA = ord(a[i]) - ord('0') if i < len(a) else 0
	bitB = ord(b[i]) - ord('0') if i < len(b) else 0

	total = bitA + bitB + carry
	char = str(total % 2)
	res = char + res
	carry = total // 2

```

```python
class Solution:
2    def addBinary(self, a: str, b: str) -> str:
3        ans = []  # List to store the binary result bits
4        i, j, carry = len(a) - 1, len(b) - 1, 0  # Initialize pointers and carry
5
6        # Loop while there are bits to process or a carry
7        while i >= 0 or j >= 0 or carry:
8            # Perform bit addition for current position and update carry
9            carry += (0 if i < 0 else int(a[i])) + (0 if j < 0 else int(b[j]))
10            # Use divmod to get the bit value and the new carry
11            carry, v = divmod(carry, 2)
12            # Append the result bit to the ans list
13            ans.append(str(v))
14            # Move to the previous bits
15            i, j = i - 1, j - 1
16      
17        # Reverse the ans list to get the correct bit order and join to form a binary string
18        return "".join(ans[::-1])
```

