[678. Valid Parenthesis String](https://leetcode.com/problems/valid-parenthesis-string/)

```python
class Solution:
    def checkValidString(self, s: str) -> bool:
        
```

# Description

Given a string `s` containing only three types of characters: `'('`, `')'` and `'*'`, return `true` _if_ `s` _is **valid**_.

The following rules define a **valid** string:
- Any left parenthesis `'('` must have a corresponding right parenthesis `')'`.
- Any right parenthesis `')'` must have a corresponding left parenthesis `'('`.
- Left parenthesis `'('` must go before the corresponding right parenthesis `')'`.
- `'*'` could be treated as a single right parenthesis `')'` or a single left parenthesis `'('` or an empty string `""`.

**Example 1:**  
**Input:** `s = "()"`  
**Output:** `true`  

**Example 2:**  
**Input:** `s = "(*)"`  
**Output:** `true`  

**Example 3:**  
**Input:** `s = "(*))"`  
**Output:** `true`  

**Constraints:**
- `1 <= s.length <= 100`
- `s[i]` is `'('`, `')'` or `'*'`.

---


# todo

#/strats 
- atm..i still have no clue why these are 'greedy' strats
	- they all seem to rather be more like: 'realizing some kind of key/trick' about the problem
	- but maybe this is actually common to 'greedy algos'? go look at CLRS/etc
		- atm, i feel like no..when i skimmed the 'greedy algo' chapters of the texts, this is not at all how they presented it
		- ie clrs presents greedy within the same 'dp subproblem' framework
		- versus often, neetcode/algomonster/'consensus', when they say 'greedy'...nothing remotely similar to the 'subproblem framework' is mentioned





# References


## tbd

- hardway is same as neetcode
	- https://leetcodethehardway.com/solutions/0600-0699/valid-parenthesis-string-medium#approach-1-greedy

- neetcode vid
	- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QhPdNS143Qg&list=PLPe9IkX86X3y5m_MvtNu2ughxsvkqUNKr&index=129
	- the key condition as we iterate through:
		- invalid if at any point, we have strictly more right parens than left parens
		- so this is like the 'state' of the subproblem
			- and now we can probly see how dp might help here, wrt handling the wildcards?
			- yes: use 2d dp wrt `i, n`
				- and so question is, 'can substring `s[i]` be interpreted as having count `n` left parenthesis?'
				- and then probly ur solution is kinda like the boolean at `dp[i, i/2]`
				- hmmm...maybe not...neetcode codes it differently...
	- and i think: need key condition at end of string:
		- did we close all left parens?
			- how do i phrase this wrt some kind of in(equality)?

	- leftmin and leftmax are keeping track of how many open left parens we could have, depending on how we choose wildcards
	- as we iterate through: if leftMin becomes negative, then reset it back to 0
		- point is, we can never choose wildcards for that situation to happen, bc then string is invalid
		- ohh so this is how we handle 'closing left parens'
		- 



	- An intuitive explanation: As we progress through the string, our minimum and maximum counts of unmatched left parentheses (`leftmin` and `leftmax`) dynamically change. If the `leftmin` becomes negative, it indicates that we've encountered more right parentheses than the total number of corresponding left parentheses and asterisks seen so far. In such cases, we can revise the previous characters to include an empty space, utilizing the wildcard '*' as an optional left parenthesis. This gives the string another chance to remain valid. However, if the `leftmax` becomes negative, it signifies an irrecoverable situation. This occurs when, despite using all wildcards as left parentheses, the count of right parentheses exceeds the count of remaining unmatched left parentheses and asterisks. In essence, it means that the string cannot be balanced, rendering it invalid. This approach ensures that the string's validity is continuously monitored and maintained throughout the traversal.

- important thing is how to realize:
	- can do greedy instead of dp


- https://algo.monster/liteproblems/678
	- says it uses 'greedy'
	- implementation is different and worse constant than neetcode, bc 2 passes
		- but seems same general idea
		- imo the reverse pass is likely doing same thing as neetcode's `leftMax`
	- idea here is like...the 2 passes:
		- essentially creating like 'bounds' to handle the wildcards
		- and as long as we're "within bounds", then we know there's some way to set wildcards in a way that makes it valid
		- importatnly: realizing we don't actually need to compute a way to set wildcards that makes it valid
		- and maybe this is how you realize that dp is op
	- how do you even realize this...
	- is 'symmetry' a key idea here?
		- bc this is kinda handling why we never erally explicitly found a condition for whether we 'closed all left parens'



# Strategies

```python

# Dynamic Programming: O(n^2)
class Solution:
    def checkValidString(self, s: str) -> bool:
        dp = {(len(s), 0): True}  # key=(i, leftCount) -> isValid

        def dfs(i, left):
            if i == len(s) or left < 0:
                return left == 0
            if (i, left) in dp:
                return dp[(i, left)]

            if s[i] == "(":
                dp[(i, left)] = dfs(i + 1, left + 1)
            elif s[i] == ")":
                dp[(i, left)] = dfs(i + 1, left - 1)
            else:
                dp[(i, left)] = (
                    dfs(i + 1, left + 1) or dfs(i + 1, left - 1) or dfs(i + 1, left)
                )
            return dp[(i, left)]

        return dfs(0, 0)


# Greedy: O(n)
class Solution:
    def checkValidString(self, s: str) -> bool:
        leftMin, leftMax = 0, 0

        for c in s:
            if c == "(":
                leftMin, leftMax = leftMin + 1, leftMax + 1
            elif c == ")":
                leftMin, leftMax = leftMin - 1, leftMax - 1
            else:
                leftMin, leftMax = leftMin - 1, leftMax + 1
            if leftMax < 0:
                return False
            if leftMin < 0:  # required because -> s = ( * ) (
                leftMin = 0
        return leftMin == 0


```