LeetCode/704. Binary Search.md, before:

[704. Binary Search](https://leetcode.com/problems/binary-search/)

Given an array of integers `nums` which is sorted in ascending order, and an integer `target`, write a function to search `target` in `nums`. If `target` exists, then return its index. Otherwise, return `-1`.

You must write an algorithm with `O(log n)` runtime complexity.

**Example 1:**  
**Input:** `nums = [-1,0,3,5,9,12], target = 9`  
**Output:** `4`  
**Explanation:** 9 exists in `nums` and its index is 4  

**Example 2:**  
**Input:** `nums = [-1,0,3,5,9,12], target = 2`  
**Output:** `-1`  
**Explanation:** 2 does not exist in `nums` so return -1  

**Constraints:**
- `1 <= nums.length <= 10^4`
- `-10^4 < nums[i], target < 10^4`
- All the integers in `nums` are **unique**.
- `nums` is sorted in ascending order.

---
# Binary search
```
def search(self, nums: List[int], target: int) -> int:
    i = 0
    j = len(nums)-1
    while i<=j:
        m = (i+j)//2
        if target == nums[m]:
            return m
        elif target < nums[m]:
            j = m-1
        else:
            i = m+1
    return -1
```

- strategy
	- compare an element in the middle of the array with the target value  
	- If the target value matches the element, its position in the array is returned  
	- If the target value is less than the element, the search continues in the lower half of the array 
	- If the target value is greater than the element, the search continues in the upper half of the array.  
- diagram: `[i .... m-1] [m] [m+1 ...... j]`
	- so either return m or adjust i or j
- mention
	- not necessary in python, but in other languages, need to be careful of overflow errors
	- aka use `i + (j-1)//2` instead of `(i + j) // 2`
		- is this now computing the ceiling of (i+j)/2 ???
- why there is no infinite loop
	- eventually, we get to a singleton array `[i]`
	- in this case, `i=j=m`; so if we still haven't found target, then we will get `i>j` and we break out of the loop
- debugging
	- if there is an infinite loop; inspect a very small case, and see if you might permanently stuck in it; in particular, check the size 2 case: `[i   j]`
		- one time i coded it, and i realized i was permanently stuck in this array


# REMARKS

- note `L<=R` while condition seems to require 3 cases, while `L<R` condition is 2 cases?
	- ![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240310163718.png)
- but note: these cases are NOT always interchangeable. see:
	- [875. Koko Eating Bananas](875.%20Koko%20Eating%20Bananas.md)
	- https://leetcode.com/problems/koko-eating-bananas/solutions/769702/Python-Clear-explanation-Powerful-Ultimate-Binary-Search-Template.-Solved-many-problems/
		- ![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240310171509.png)

Commit message:

153
- 153 has everything
- edited 704 binary search as well...binary search has some subtle points actually...very powerful

LeetCode/704. Binary Search.md, after:

[704. Binary Search](https://leetcode.com/problems/binary-search/)

Given an array of integers `nums` which is sorted in ascending order, and an integer `target`, write a function to search `target` in `nums`. If `target` exists, then return its index. Otherwise, return `-1`.

You must write an algorithm with `O(log n)` runtime complexity.

**Example 1:**  
**Input:** `nums = [-1,0,3,5,9,12], target = 9`  
**Output:** `4`  
**Explanation:** 9 exists in `nums` and its index is 4  

**Example 2:**  
**Input:** `nums = [-1,0,3,5,9,12], target = 2`  
**Output:** `-1`  
**Explanation:** 2 does not exist in `nums` so return -1  

**Constraints:**
- `1 <= nums.length <= 10^4`
- `-10^4 < nums[i], target < 10^4`
- All the integers in `nums` are **unique**.
- `nums` is sorted in ascending order.

---
# Binary search
```
def search(self, nums: List[int], target: int) -> int:
    i = 0
    j = len(nums)-1
    while i<=j:
        m = (i+j)//2
        if target == nums[m]:
            return m
        elif target < nums[m]:
            j = m-1
        else:
            i = m+1
    return -1
```

- strategy
	- compare an element in the middle of the array with the target value  
	- If the target value matches the element, its position in the array is returned  
	- If the target value is less than the element, the search continues in the lower half of the array 
	- If the target value is greater than the element, the search continues in the upper half of the array.  
- diagram: `[i .... m-1] [m] [m+1 ...... j]`
	- so either return m or adjust i or j
- mention
	- not necessary in python, but in other languages, need to be careful of overflow errors
	- aka use `i + (j-1)//2` instead of `(i + j) // 2`
		- is this now computing the ceiling of (i+j)/2 ???
- why there is no infinite loop
	- eventually, we get to a singleton array `[i]`
	- in this case, `i=j=m`; so if we still haven't found target, then we will get `i>j` and we break out of the loop
- debugging
	- if there is an infinite loop; inspect a very small case, and see if you might permanently stuck in it; in particular, check the size 2 case: `[i   j]`
		- one time i coded it, and i realized i was permanently stuck in this array


# REMARKS

- note `L<=R` while condition seems to require 3 cases, while `L<R` condition is 2 cases?
	- actually it doesn't...see [875. Koko Eating Bananas](875.%20Koko%20Eating%20Bananas.md)
		- see the 'explanation/general template discussion' i linked below...i think `L<=R` vs `L<R` relates more to how you plan to increment/adjust mid based on L and R
	- ![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240310163718.png)
- but note: 2 vs 3 cases is NOT always interchangeable. see:
	- [875. Koko Eating Bananas](875.%20Koko%20Eating%20Bananas.md)
	- https://leetcode.com/discuss/study-guide/786126/Python-Powerful-Ultimate-Binary-Search-Template.-Solved-many-problems
		- ![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240310171509.png)
- todo: figure out how to be careful you dont get stuck in an infinite loop if your while condition is `L<=R`
	- there should be like a general discussion/explanation about this somewhere


seems i should just never use L<=R...that has potential to do infinite loops


![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240310202427.png)

![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240310202535.png)


> I have a tip. Always use l < r as the while loop condition, and you can return l as the answer if you exit the loop. If you do l=m+1 or r=m-1 it won't cause an issue because search space is being decreased each iteration. If you use r=m it still won't cause an issue because when you do m =(l+r)/2, m will never be r because of the while loop condition. Only issue comes when doing l=m and the issue comes when search space becomes just 2 elements then m becomes equal to l and enters an infinite loop. In that case you add some extra logic to decide whether m is the answer or l = m+1.
> One good example of this I had found was search in a rotated sorted array, do check it out.


> I mostly use the left < right check, so whenever the while loop would break left would be equal to right. Then add an additional check if clause.. if answer needs to be updated for the left = right case. I find it the easiest to visualise.

![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240310202857.png)

![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240310202914.png)


![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240310202925.png)


![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240310202951.png)
