[735. Asteroid Collision](https://leetcode.com/problems/asteroid-collision/)

```python
class Solution:
    def asteroidCollision(self, asteroids: List[int]) -> List[int]:
        
```

# Description

We are given an array `asteroids` of integers representing asteroids in a row.

For each asteroid, the absolute value represents its size, and the sign represents its direction (positive meaning right, negative meaning left). Each asteroid moves at the same speed.

Find out the state of the asteroids after all collisions. If two asteroids meet, the smaller one will explode. If both are the same size, both will explode. Two asteroids moving in the same direction will never meet.

**Example 1:**  
**Input:** `asteroids = [5,10,-5]`  
**Output:** `[5,10]`  
**Explanation:** The 10 and -5 collide resulting in 10. The 5 and 10 never collide.

**Example 2:**  
**Input:** `asteroids = [8,-8]`  
**Output:** `[]`  
**Explanation:** The 8 and -8 collide exploding each other.

**Example 3:**  
**Input:** `asteroids = [10,2,-5]`  
**Output:** `[10]`  
**Explanation:** The 2 and -5 collide resulting in -5. The 10 and -5 collide resulting in 10.

**Constraints:**
- `2 <= asteroids.length <= 10^4`
- `-1000 <= asteroids[i] <= 1000`
- `asteroids[i] != 0`

---

# todo


#/jargon 

- apparently #simulation is an actual problem category/term
	- https://leetcode.com/tag/simulation/
	- https://www.quora.com/What-is-a-simulation-solution-in-competitive-programming-contests
	- check halim
	- maybe: common 'array strat' is simulation
		- and i highly suspect: often use a stack
		- remember [[853. Car Fleet]]
			- this should have the same tag, whatever i end up calling it
	- feels like a lot of 'priority queue' solutions might be related to this tag too?
		- and/or greedy?


# References


## tbd
- possibly
	- #greedy 
	- #stacks 
	- #simulation



- step 1:
	- array problem
	- so try to find a 1 pass + linear space solution
- seems like a typical pattern:
	- 'at index i, the structure holds valid stuff until that point'
- also:
	- answer is a subsequence of the input
	- so should this immediately make me suspect that certain structures should be used? and/or limit what structures?


- seems 'greedy'?


- strat
	- iterate left to right
- defining what the structure is holding
	- currently whole asteroids
- so what structure?
	- stack
	- bc iterate left to right:
		- push if curr does not collide with current asteroids
			- if curr is positive
			- if stack empty
			- if peek is negative
		- aka collision only happens if:
			- peek is positive AND curr is negative
			- so now we resolve collision:
				- pop, figure out what survives
				- repeat collision check


- cannot do a variant where:
	- have some kind of counter for negative asteroids
		- this would be an optimization if we only care about number of surviving asteroids
		- bc then, dont need to push negative asteroids onto empty stack
	- because we want to return the actual steroids that survive


- implementation
	- have the while loop first
		- aka routine for where you keep popping
	- then you move onto the 'meat of the comparison where you finally decide what to do with curr elt'
		- #/jargon

	- specifically: conditions
		- only stack explode
			- while
		- then we're now at the stage where we decide whether:
			- curr explodes (both explode)
			- curr survives
			- (aka no while loop)


# Strategies


## stack

- complexity
	- time O(n)
		- each element
			- processed/'visited' once
			- can be pushed and popped from the stack at most once
	- space O(n)
		- worst case: all the asteroids are moving in the same direction and there are no collisions
		- so `stk` can potentially grow to include all elements of the `asteroids`



```python
class Solution:
    def asteroidCollision(self, asteroids: List[int]) -> List[int]:
        stk = []
        for x in asteroids:
            if x > 0:
                stk.append(x)
            else:
                while stk and stk[-1] > 0 and stk[-1] < -x: 
                    stk.pop()
                if stk and stk[-1] == -x:
                    stk.pop()
                elif not stk or stk[-1] < 0:
                    stk.append(x)
        return stk
```



- i like how this has explicit condition for when you 'destroy asteroid' (aka pass) 
	- imo makes the inspo/correctness more clear

```python
class Solution:
  def asteroidCollision(self, asteroids: List[int]) -> List[int]:
    stack = []

    for a in asteroids:
      if a > 0:
        stack.append(a)
      else:  # a < 0
        # Destroy the previous positive one(s).
        while stack and stack[-1] > 0 and stack[-1] < -a:
          stack.pop()
        if not stack or stack[-1] < 0:
          stack.append(a)
        elif stack[-1] == -a:
          stack.pop()  # Both asteroids explode.
        else:  # stack[-1] > the current asteroid.
          pass  # Destroy the current asteroid, so do nothing.

    return stack
```
