LeetCode/739. Daily Temperatures.md, before:

[739. Daily Temperatures](https://leetcode.com/problems/daily-temperatures/)

```
class Solution:
    def dailyTemperatures(self, temperatures: List[int]) -> List[int]:
        
```

# Description
Given an array of integers `temperatures` represents the daily temperatures, return _an array_ `answer` _such that_ `answer[i]` _is the number of days you have to wait after the_ `ith` _day to get a warmer temperature_. If there is no future day for which this is possible, keep `answer[i] == 0` instead.

**Example 1:**  
**Input:** `temperatures = [73,74,75,71,69,72,76,73]`  
**Output:** `[1,1,4,2,1,1,0,0]`  

**Example 2:**  
**Input:** `temperatures = [30,40,50,60]`  
**Output:** `[1,1,1,0]`  

**Example 3:**  
**Input:** `temperatures = [30,60,90]`  
**Output:** `[1,1,0]`  

**Constraints:**
- `1 <= temperatures.length <= 10^5`
- `30 <= temperatures[i] <= 100`

---

# to blurb
- this problem is another example of 'same structure but diff approach'
	- aka I need to differentiate/name headings according to the approach, not the structure
- ie the inspo process should be:
	- step 1: what info do i want to store?
	- step 2: based on what i want to store: what structure should i use

- jargon
	- abstract
		- state the problem in more general terms
	- approaches
		- label headings so that i can just look at outline
		- heading 2: approach 'ideas'
		- heading 3: approach 'implementations'


# References



# Results

## basics: monotone stack
- (confirm) definition: monotone stack
	- note: bottom=left and top=right
		- the 'bottom' is considered the 'start' of the stack
	- so `[1,2,3]` is strictly monotone increasing
		- `[3,2,2,1]` is monotone decreasing


- this structure might be appropriate when
	- 'what we need to store' is:
		- based on a direction
		- can be equivalently determined wrt an inequality


## approach: iterate over answers

- situation: elements of search space can be considered both questions and answers
	- here: for each question (each day), find the answer (future warmer day)


- instead of iterating over 'questions'
	- or rather: iterate over elements, as if they are 'answers'



- the general idea here is that:
	- 'set of possible answers' is strictly asymptotically smaller than 'set of possible questions'
	- specfically here, this is bc:
		- finite temp range
		- answer is 'strictly warmer'

- for this problem, it is better to iterate backwards



# Abstract
- for each index, find the first time that a greater value occurs on the right


# Approaches
## find answer
- idea
	- store previous indices that require an update
- implementations
	- (all are forwards pass)
	- brute force
		- strategy
			- for each day
				- iterate through rest of the days until we hit warmer
		- complexity
			- O(n^2) time
	- monotone stack



## find question
- idea
	- store future indices that can force an update
- implementations
	- (all backwards pass)
	- brute force
	- monotone stack
	- DP


# todo

- 'direction you iterate' discussion
	- currently way too much info
	- imo best place to put this: split btwn:
		- 'key ideas explaining the approach'
		- complexity discussion for backwards

- delete the hashing approach
	- it’s already worse in this ‘bounded’ case; in the unbounded case, it doesn’t work at all

- DP
	- confirm that 'DP' is the right jargon for the 'array jumping' approach
		- seems yes bc: using the array to memo-ize past results, to avoid needing to do future computations
	- O(n) space complexity
		- each computed `prevSmaller`/`nextSmaller` value is used at most once when computing a new `prevSmaller`/`nextSmaller` value.





# discussions to edit


## flip problem

- !!!!key idea: flip the problem:
	- instead of: 'store things that haven't found a solution'
	- 'store things that can be/force a solution'
	- note: when you do this flip: can mean things like:
		- change direction of iteration
	- equivalent idea here might be:
		- one way to figure out how to iterate in a different way:
			- (bc often, efficiencies occur when you figure out how to iterate in a certain way)
			- it might be associated with storing 'possible answers' instead of 'unfinished questions'



- flip problem:
	- instead of: for each day, find solution
	- let's do: for each day, what could it be a solution for
- backwards brute force
	- for each index:
		- iterate through prev days
		- assign this index to any days that are colder
- observe that: this 'greedy' technique works:
	- bc ultimately, bc we iterated backwards:
		- every day will be assigned with the earliest index of a warmer day


## strategy
- forwards:
	- store indices that haven't found a solution
		- aka haven't found a warmer day
	- thus, updates occur if curr element:
		- is strictly warmer than stored stuff
	- thus, stack implementation:
		- pop while strictly warmer than stack top
		- aka push if same or colder
	- thus, monotone decreasing stack
- backwards:
	- store indices that can determine/force a solution
		- aka nothing same or warmer has happened at a previous index
			- previous wrt actual array; not wrt iteration
		- ie store indices that could be answers (for earlier days, aka future iterations)
		- ie store indices such that: as you iterate left:
			- current iteration can determine its solution
	- thus, updates occur if curr element:
		- is same or warmer than stored stuff
			- bc the curr elt is at least as warm, and so the currently stored elt would never force a solution
			- ie: stored stuff wouldn't be an answer anymore, bc there is an earlier day with a same/warmer temp
	- thus, stack implementation:
		- pop while same or warmer than stack top
		- aka push if colder
	- thus, strictly monotone decreasing stack



- both approaches
	- top of stack will be the most recent index wrt iteration
		- forwards: later index in array
		- backwards: earlier index in array




## complexity

- backwards is strictly better asymptotics than forwards
	- because BOTH of the following occur:
		- finite temp range
		- problem specifies 'warmer' instead of 'not cooler' (ie 'same or warmer'
			- aka strict vs weak inequality
	- means that iterating backwards is O(1) space, but iterating forwards is O(n) space



- backwards complexity
	- same time complexity
	- O(1) space complexity

		- bc the inequality is different
			- in forwards: we only pop if strict equality
			- in backwards, we pop if non strict
			- this is CRUCIAL: because:
				- because the range of temps is constant, this means there can only be at most a constant number of items in the stack
				- kinda like a pigeonhole argument




## complexity forwards
- if you iterate forwards, this means that `mostRecent` needs to store/update colder temps (instead of warmer)
- so the idea being, for each temp, you would iterate through strictly lower temps, and update all indices you find with the answer
	- the problem is that 'same' temp is not considered lower
	- so if you hav string of same temps i, then `mostRecent[i]` keeps getting values appended to it.
- ie issue here is that: mostRecent[i] must allow multiple entries, ie `mostRecent` is now a list of lists
- so this has high space complexity
- aka its very that we say warmer; if we allowed "or say temp", then this reverse direction would have O(1) space complexity as well
- time complexity is O(n) still (bc for each day, you iterate over constant number of temps; and the 'update answer' is amortized O(n))
	- but the constant is much worse than stacks, so you should just use stacks 


	
- "warmer or same temp" would allow iterating forwards to be just as good
	- because 'temps that require an update' is unique
	- ie asymptitic size of 'question space' is at most the size of temps


- for both, backwards always have a unique stored index for each stored temp
- but for "warmer": forwards does not have a unique index for each temp




## space: efficient
- for backwards:
	- modify the temps array with the solutions (aka indices) as you iterate through
	- means your stack should now hold tuples: both index and temp
	- note:
		- without this 'optimization', backwards is O(1) space
		- bc stack is O(1) space
	

- forwards might have a similar optimization, but it'd do nothing for asymptotics
	- bc the stack is O(n) space



## Hashing/indexing

```
todo: similar to below code, but in place
aka dont need answer array; can just modify temperatures in place


```
![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240309124251.png)

very similar approach:
essentially instead of figuring out 'min index' for each node;
you move this computation earlier:
ie the node's index, this is now the min index for every temp AND lower temps
ie `mostRecent` should now store: index when this temp or higher was last seen
it's a very similar approach. same thing imo
also this guy does it in place, like i suspected was possible 
![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240309130952.png)



- strategy
	- a `mostRecent` array that stores "most recent encountered indices" of temps; explained below
	- iterate backwards
		- replace indices in the `mostRecent` array as you encounter them
			- so if you replace, you're replacing with a smaller (aka more recent) index, for days you will iterate over later (which are actually, days in the past)
		- once you find index for next warmest day (might not exist):
			- replace the entry in `temperatures` with that index
			- also remember to update mostRecent with the temp that was there (and the index)
				- ie do `mostRecent = temperatures[i]` before you do `temperatures[i] = mostRecent[j]` for `j = min(mostRecent[k:])`
					- where `k = temperatures[i]`
			- because you don't need the temp for that day anymore
				- previous days only care about the most recent index that a temp has occurred; this is now stored in `mostRecent`
- strategy
	- iterate backwards through the array
	- array keeps track of the earliest day seen so far, that a temp has occurred
	- you update this as you iterate
	- earliest day bc:
		- you're iterating backwards
		- when u reach a temp, to see if a warmer temp has happened:
			- you check that array for all the warmer temps
				- and you know, if an index is there, it's the most recent index for that temp (after the current day)
					- no index = sentinel index, ie max.inf
				- and you pick the min out of all these indices (bc you just want any of the warmer temps)
					- aka note: need to check ALL of the warmer temps
- complexity
	- time
		- the constant is much worse than stacks
			- would technically still be O(n), but the constant in the worst case is certainly much larger than the monotonic stack method
			- ie rn we have 70 possible temps, so this is like O(70n)
			- versus i think monotonic stacks, its more like O(2n)
		- the constant is exactly the number of possible temps
			- means this approach only reasonable bc finite temps
			- for a more general problem (ie the 'next greater element'), this type of approach is asymptotically worse (not just 'worse constant')






## forward: stack

```
"""forwards"""
class Solution:
    def dailyTemperatures(self, temperatures: List[int]) -> List[int]:
        res = [0] * len(temperatures)
        stack = []  # pair: [temp, index]

        for i, t in enumerate(temperatures):
            while stack and t > stack[-1][0]:
                stackT, stackInd = stack.pop()
                res[stackInd] = i - stackInd
            stack.append((t, i))
        return res


"""backwards"""

class Solution:
    def dailyTemperatures(self, temperatures):
        result = [0] * len(temperatures)
        stack = []

        for i in range(len(temperatures) - 1, -1, -1):
            curr_temperature = temperatures[i]

            while stack and curr_temperature >= temperatures[stack[-1]]:
                stack.pop()

            if stack:
                result[i] = stack[-1] - i

            stack.append(i)

        return result





```

![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240307223749.png)



- summary
	- push the index of the current temperature to the stack if it cannot find a higher temperature immediately. Subsequently, with each new day's temperature, we compare it against the peak temperatures on the stack until we find one that is lower or until the stack is empty
	-  a monotonic stack in which, instead of storing the values, we store indices and ensure that the temperatures related to these indices are in ascending order. A monotonic stack is helpful when dealing with problems where we need to know the next greater or smaller element in an array.
	- Store currently unsolved elements, later if there is a bigger number, withdraw the unsolved elements and get the answer.
- observation
	- The intuition behind the solution is to use a stack that helps to track the temperatures and indexes. We traverse the temperatures from left to right, and for each day's temperature, we check whether it is higher than the temperature at the indexes recorded on the stack. If so, this means we have found a day with a warmer temperature for the days corresponding to those indexes. Therefore, for each such index, j, we can update answer[j] to the current day's index minus j, indicating the number of days that had to be waited.
	- The stack keeps track of indexes with temperatures that we haven't yet found a warmer day for. This is an effective approach because the temperatures are processed in order and the stack ensures we only compare temperatures where the future warmer temperature hasn't been found yet. When a warmer temperature is encountered, it is the immediate next warmer temperature for all temperatures currently in the stack. Once updated, we no longer need to consider those days because their next warmer temperature has been determined.
	- In cases where there are no warmer temperatures in the future, the answer will remain 0 by default, as established at the start of the solution.
- strategy
	- monotonic decreasing stack
		- so if any incoming value is larger, we must pop values off the top of the stack, until it satisfies rules 1 or 2 before we can add it to our stack.
	- Create an empty stack `stk` that will store indices of the temperatures array.
	- While there are indices on the stack and the current temperature `t` is greater than the temperature at the top index of the stack (i.e., `temperatures[stk[-1]] < t`), pop the index `j` from the top of the stack. This indicates that we have found a warmer day for the day at index `j`.
	- Calculate the number of days waited for index `j` by subtracting `j` from the current index `i` (i.e., `ans[j] = i - j`). This gives us the number of days that had to pass to reach a warmer temperature.
	- Continue popping from the stack and updating the `ans` array until the stack is empty or a day with a lower temperature is found.
	- If the current day's temperature isn't higher than the temperature at the top index of the stack, or if the stack is empty, push the current index `i` onto the stack. This signifies that we are still looking for a future warmer temperature for this day.
	- Once we exit the loop, we have filled out the `ans` array with the number of days to wait for a warmer temperature after each day. In cases where we do not find a warmer temperature, the default value of `0` remains.
- complexity
	- O(n) time amortized
		- each element is processed as it's pushed into the stack stk and then processed again when it's popped from the stack. Each element can be pushed and popped at most once 
	- O(n) space
		- auxiliary stack `stk` that, in the worst case, might contain all temperature indices (N) at some point in time
		- Additionally, we have an array ans to store the answer for each day, which also contains N elements.
- note
	- your stack can store just the index; bc you can always look up the temp
		- or can store (temp, index)
		- either work


---

(below: replace deque with stack)
1. Initialize a deque to store indices of temperatures.
2. Initialize a result vector to store the days until a warmer temperature is encountered.
3. Iterate through the temperatures in reverse order.
4. If the deque is empty, push the current index and set the result for that index to 0.
5. If the deque is not empty, pop indices from the front of the deque while the current temperature is greater than or equal to the temperature at the front.
6. If the deque is empty after the above step, set the result for the current index to 0.
7. If the deque is not empty, set the result for the current index to the difference between the front of the deque and the current index.
8. Push the current index to the front of the deque.
9. Continue these steps for all temperatures.
10. Return the result vector.





## DP

```
vector<int> dailyTemperatures(vector<int>& temperatures) {
    vector<int> res(temperatures.size());
    for (int i = temperatures.size() - 1; i >= 0; --i) {
        int j = i+1;
        while (j < temperatures.size() && temperatures[j] <= temperatures[i]) {
            if (res[j] > 0) j = res[j] + j;
            else j = temperatures.size();
        }
        // either j == size || temperatures[j] > temperatures[i]
        if (j < temperatures.size()) res[i] = j - i;
    }
    return res;
}
```
- note:
	- backwards direction, "jumping through the computed answers array" is an equivalent interpretation of the stacks solution
		- and surely there's equivalent for forwards
			- actually..i'm not sure about this?
	- why its equivalent
		- ie point of stacks is that we just discard stuff that we know wont themselves be answers
		- vs here: 'discarding' is done via 'jumping past answers'
		- point is that: if we had to jump around on this node, well now when we do computations for previous day: we dont have to jump around, bc today we already did those computations
![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240309160215.png)

Commit message:

graphs, dp, meta
- finished graphs
- halfway through 1d dynamic programming
- adjusted a lot of how i use obsidian ie style; ie im using tags for fundies

LeetCode/739. Daily Temperatures.md, after:

[739. Daily Temperatures](https://leetcode.com/problems/daily-temperatures/)

```python
class Solution:
    def dailyTemperatures(self, temperatures: List[int]) -> List[int]:
        
```

# Description
Given an array of integers `temperatures` represents the daily temperatures, return _an array_ `answer` _such that_ `answer[i]` _is the number of days you have to wait after the_ `ith` _day to get a warmer temperature_. If there is no future day for which this is possible, keep `answer[i] == 0` instead.

**Example 1:**  
**Input:** `temperatures = [73,74,75,71,69,72,76,73]`  
**Output:** `[1,1,4,2,1,1,0,0]`  

**Example 2:**  
**Input:** `temperatures = [30,40,50,60]`  
**Output:** `[1,1,1,0]`  

**Example 3:**  
**Input:** `temperatures = [30,60,90]`  
**Output:** `[1,1,0]`  

**Constraints:**
- `1 <= temperatures.length <= 10^5`
- `30 <= temperatures[i] <= 100`

---

# #_move

- style
	- this problem is another example of 'same structure but diff approach'
		- aka I need to differentiate/name headings according to the approach, not the structure
	- ie the inspo process should be:
		- step 1: what info do i want to store?
		- step 2: based on what i want to store: what structure should i use

- jargon
	- abstract
		- state the problem in more general terms
	- approaches
		- label headings so that i can just look at outline
		- heading 2: approach 'ideas'
		- heading 3: approach 'implementations'


# References


## #stacks/monotone_stack
- this problem is:
	- for each index, find the first time that a greater value occurs on the right

- (confirm) definition: monotone stack
	- note: bottom=left and top=right
		- the 'bottom' is considered the 'start' of the stack
	- so `[1,2,3]` is strictly monotone increasing
		- `[3,2,2,1]` is monotone decreasing


- this structure might be appropriate when
	- 'what we need to store' is:
		- based on a direction
		- can be equivalently determined wrt an inequality


- todo: figure out a problem where monotone stack works, but DP doesn't



# Results


## #iteration/over_answer

- situation: elements of search space can be considered both questions and answers
	- here: for each question (each day), find the answer (future warmer day)


- instead of iterating over 'questions'
	- or rather: iterate over elements, as if they are 'answers'



- the general idea here is that:
	- 'set of possible answers' is strictly asymptotically smaller than 'set of possible questions'
	- specfically here, this is bc:
		- finite temp range
		- answer is 'strictly warmer'

- for this problem, it is better to iterate backwards



- ie it matters for space complexity, which direction you iterate through



# Strategies
## find answer
- idea
	- store previous indices that require an update
- implementations
	- (all are forwards pass)
	- brute force
		- strategy
			- for each day
				- iterate through rest of the days until we hit warmer
		- complexity
			- O(n^2) time
	- monotone stack



## find question
- idea
	- store future indices that can force an update
- implementations
	- (all backwards pass)
	- brute force
	- monotone stack
	- DP


# #_cleanup 

- 'direction you iterate' discussion
	- currently way too much info
	- imo best place to put this: split btwn:
		- 'key ideas explaining the approach'
		- complexity discussion for backwards

- delete the hashing approach
	- it’s already worse in this ‘bounded’ case; in the unbounded case, it doesn’t work at all

- DP
	- confirm that 'DP' is the right jargon for the 'array jumping' approach
		- seems yes bc: using the array to memo-ize past results, to avoid needing to do future computations
	- O(n) space complexity
		- each computed `prevSmaller`/`nextSmaller` value is used at most once when computing a new `prevSmaller`/`nextSmaller` value.




## flip problem

- !!!!key idea: flip the problem:
	- instead of: 'store things that haven't found a solution'
	- 'store things that can be/force a solution'
	- note: when you do this flip: can mean things like:
		- change direction of iteration
	- equivalent idea here might be:
		- one way to figure out how to iterate in a different way:
			- (bc often, efficiencies occur when you figure out how to iterate in a certain way)
			- it might be associated with storing 'possible answers' instead of 'unfinished questions'



- flip problem:
	- instead of: for each day, find solution
	- let's do: for each day, what could it be a solution for
- backwards brute force
	- for each index:
		- iterate through prev days
		- assign this index to any days that are colder
- observe that: this 'greedy' technique works:
	- bc ultimately, bc we iterated backwards:
		- every day will be assigned with the earliest index of a warmer day


## strategy
- forwards:
	- store indices that haven't found a solution
		- aka haven't found a warmer day
	- thus, updates occur if curr element:
		- is strictly warmer than stored stuff
	- thus, stack implementation:
		- pop while strictly warmer than stack top
		- aka push if same or colder
	- thus, monotone decreasing stack
- backwards:
	- store indices that can determine/force a solution
		- aka nothing same or warmer has happened at a previous index
			- previous wrt actual array; not wrt iteration
		- ie store indices that could be answers (for earlier days, aka future iterations)
		- ie store indices such that: as you iterate left:
			- current iteration can determine its solution
	- thus, updates occur if curr element:
		- is same or warmer than stored stuff
			- bc the curr elt is at least as warm, and so the currently stored elt would never force a solution
			- ie: stored stuff wouldn't be an answer anymore, bc there is an earlier day with a same/warmer temp
	- thus, stack implementation:
		- pop while same or warmer than stack top
		- aka push if colder
	- thus, strictly monotone decreasing stack



- both approaches
	- top of stack will be the most recent index wrt iteration
		- forwards: later index in array
		- backwards: earlier index in array




## complexity

- backwards is strictly better asymptotics than forwards
	- because BOTH of the following occur:
		- finite temp range
		- problem specifies 'warmer' instead of 'not cooler' (ie 'same or warmer'
			- aka strict vs weak inequality
	- means that iterating backwards is O(1) space, but iterating forwards is O(n) space



- backwards complexity
	- same time complexity
	- O(1) space complexity

		- bc the inequality is different
			- in forwards: we only pop if strict equality
			- in backwards, we pop if non strict
			- this is CRUCIAL: because:
				- because the range of temps is constant, this means there can only be at most a constant number of items in the stack
				- kinda like a pigeonhole argument




## complexity forwards
- if you iterate forwards, this means that `mostRecent` needs to store/update colder temps (instead of warmer)
- so the idea being, for each temp, you would iterate through strictly lower temps, and update all indices you find with the answer
	- the problem is that 'same' temp is not considered lower
	- so if you hav string of same temps i, then `mostRecent[i]` keeps getting values appended to it.
- ie issue here is that: mostRecent[i] must allow multiple entries, ie `mostRecent` is now a list of lists
- so this has high space complexity
- aka its very that we say warmer; if we allowed "or say temp", then this reverse direction would have O(1) space complexity as well
- time complexity is O(n) still (bc for each day, you iterate over constant number of temps; and the 'update answer' is amortized O(n))
	- but the constant is much worse than stacks, so you should just use stacks 


	
- "warmer or same temp" would allow iterating forwards to be just as good
	- because 'temps that require an update' is unique
	- ie asymptitic size of 'question space' is at most the size of temps


- for both, backwards always have a unique stored index for each stored temp
- but for "warmer": forwards does not have a unique index for each temp




## space: efficient
- for backwards:
	- modify the temps array with the solutions (aka indices) as you iterate through
	- means your stack should now hold tuples: both index and temp
	- note:
		- without this 'optimization', backwards is O(1) space
		- bc stack is O(1) space
	

- forwards might have a similar optimization, but it'd do nothing for asymptotics
	- bc the stack is O(n) space



## Hashing/indexing

```
todo: similar to below code, but in place
aka dont need answer array; can just modify temperatures in place


```
![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240309124251.png)

very similar approach:
essentially instead of figuring out 'min index' for each node;
you move this computation earlier:
ie the node's index, this is now the min index for every temp AND lower temps
ie `mostRecent` should now store: index when this temp or higher was last seen
it's a very similar approach. same thing imo
also this guy does it in place, like i suspected was possible 
![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240309130952.png)



- strategy
	- a `mostRecent` array that stores "most recent encountered indices" of temps; explained below
	- iterate backwards
		- replace indices in the `mostRecent` array as you encounter them
			- so if you replace, you're replacing with a smaller (aka more recent) index, for days you will iterate over later (which are actually, days in the past)
		- once you find index for next warmest day (might not exist):
			- replace the entry in `temperatures` with that index
			- also remember to update mostRecent with the temp that was there (and the index)
				- ie do `mostRecent = temperatures[i]` before you do `temperatures[i] = mostRecent[j]` for `j = min(mostRecent[k:])`
					- where `k = temperatures[i]`
			- because you don't need the temp for that day anymore
				- previous days only care about the most recent index that a temp has occurred; this is now stored in `mostRecent`
- strategy
	- iterate backwards through the array
	- array keeps track of the earliest day seen so far, that a temp has occurred
	- you update this as you iterate
	- earliest day bc:
		- you're iterating backwards
		- when u reach a temp, to see if a warmer temp has happened:
			- you check that array for all the warmer temps
				- and you know, if an index is there, it's the most recent index for that temp (after the current day)
					- no index = sentinel index, ie max.inf
				- and you pick the min out of all these indices (bc you just want any of the warmer temps)
					- aka note: need to check ALL of the warmer temps
- complexity
	- time
		- the constant is much worse than stacks
			- would technically still be O(n), but the constant in the worst case is certainly much larger than the monotonic stack method
			- ie rn we have 70 possible temps, so this is like O(70n)
			- versus i think monotonic stacks, its more like O(2n)
		- the constant is exactly the number of possible temps
			- means this approach only reasonable bc finite temps
			- for a more general problem (ie the 'next greater element'), this type of approach is asymptotically worse (not just 'worse constant')






## forward: stack

```
"""forwards"""
class Solution:
    def dailyTemperatures(self, temperatures: List[int]) -> List[int]:
        res = [0] * len(temperatures)
        stack = []  # pair: [temp, index]

        for i, t in enumerate(temperatures):
            while stack and t > stack[-1][0]:
                stackT, stackInd = stack.pop()
                res[stackInd] = i - stackInd
            stack.append((t, i))
        return res


"""backwards"""

class Solution:
    def dailyTemperatures(self, temperatures):
        result = [0] * len(temperatures)
        stack = []

        for i in range(len(temperatures) - 1, -1, -1):
            curr_temperature = temperatures[i]

            while stack and curr_temperature >= temperatures[stack[-1]]:
                stack.pop()

            if stack:
                result[i] = stack[-1] - i

            stack.append(i)

        return result





```

![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240307223749.png)



- summary
	- push the index of the current temperature to the stack if it cannot find a higher temperature immediately. Subsequently, with each new day's temperature, we compare it against the peak temperatures on the stack until we find one that is lower or until the stack is empty
	-  a monotonic stack in which, instead of storing the values, we store indices and ensure that the temperatures related to these indices are in ascending order. A monotonic stack is helpful when dealing with problems where we need to know the next greater or smaller element in an array.
	- Store currently unsolved elements, later if there is a bigger number, withdraw the unsolved elements and get the answer.
- observation
	- The intuition behind the solution is to use a stack that helps to track the temperatures and indexes. We traverse the temperatures from left to right, and for each day's temperature, we check whether it is higher than the temperature at the indexes recorded on the stack. If so, this means we have found a day with a warmer temperature for the days corresponding to those indexes. Therefore, for each such index, j, we can update answer[j] to the current day's index minus j, indicating the number of days that had to be waited.
	- The stack keeps track of indexes with temperatures that we haven't yet found a warmer day for. This is an effective approach because the temperatures are processed in order and the stack ensures we only compare temperatures where the future warmer temperature hasn't been found yet. When a warmer temperature is encountered, it is the immediate next warmer temperature for all temperatures currently in the stack. Once updated, we no longer need to consider those days because their next warmer temperature has been determined.
	- In cases where there are no warmer temperatures in the future, the answer will remain 0 by default, as established at the start of the solution.
- strategy
	- monotonic decreasing stack
		- so if any incoming value is larger, we must pop values off the top of the stack, until it satisfies rules 1 or 2 before we can add it to our stack.
	- Create an empty stack `stk` that will store indices of the temperatures array.
	- While there are indices on the stack and the current temperature `t` is greater than the temperature at the top index of the stack (i.e., `temperatures[stk[-1]] < t`), pop the index `j` from the top of the stack. This indicates that we have found a warmer day for the day at index `j`.
	- Calculate the number of days waited for index `j` by subtracting `j` from the current index `i` (i.e., `ans[j] = i - j`). This gives us the number of days that had to pass to reach a warmer temperature.
	- Continue popping from the stack and updating the `ans` array until the stack is empty or a day with a lower temperature is found.
	- If the current day's temperature isn't higher than the temperature at the top index of the stack, or if the stack is empty, push the current index `i` onto the stack. This signifies that we are still looking for a future warmer temperature for this day.
	- Once we exit the loop, we have filled out the `ans` array with the number of days to wait for a warmer temperature after each day. In cases where we do not find a warmer temperature, the default value of `0` remains.
- complexity
	- O(n) time amortized
		- each element is processed as it's pushed into the stack stk and then processed again when it's popped from the stack. Each element can be pushed and popped at most once 
	- O(n) space
		- auxiliary stack `stk` that, in the worst case, might contain all temperature indices (N) at some point in time
		- Additionally, we have an array ans to store the answer for each day, which also contains N elements.
- note
	- your stack can store just the index; bc you can always look up the temp
		- or can store (temp, index)
		- either work


---

(below: replace deque with stack)
1. Initialize a deque to store indices of temperatures.
2. Initialize a result vector to store the days until a warmer temperature is encountered.
3. Iterate through the temperatures in reverse order.
4. If the deque is empty, push the current index and set the result for that index to 0.
5. If the deque is not empty, pop indices from the front of the deque while the current temperature is greater than or equal to the temperature at the front.
6. If the deque is empty after the above step, set the result for the current index to 0.
7. If the deque is not empty, set the result for the current index to the difference between the front of the deque and the current index.
8. Push the current index to the front of the deque.
9. Continue these steps for all temperatures.
10. Return the result vector.





## DP

```
vector<int> dailyTemperatures(vector<int>& temperatures) {
    vector<int> res(temperatures.size());
    for (int i = temperatures.size() - 1; i >= 0; --i) {
        int j = i+1;
        while (j < temperatures.size() && temperatures[j] <= temperatures[i]) {
            if (res[j] > 0) j = res[j] + j;
            else j = temperatures.size();
        }
        // either j == size || temperatures[j] > temperatures[i]
        if (j < temperatures.size()) res[i] = j - i;
    }
    return res;
}
```
- note:
	- backwards direction, "jumping through the computed answers array" is an equivalent interpretation of the stacks solution
		- and surely there's equivalent for forwards
			- actually..i'm not sure about this?
	- why its equivalent
		- ie point of stacks is that we just discard stuff that we know wont themselves be answers
		- vs here: 'discarding' is done via 'jumping past answers'
		- point is that: if we had to jump around on this node, well now when we do computations for previous day: we dont have to jump around, bc today we already did those computations
![](../!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240309160215.png)
