LeetCode/746. Min Cost Climbing Stairs.md, before:

[746. Min Cost Climbing Stairs](https://leetcode.com/problems/min-cost-climbing-stairs/)

```python
class Solution:
    def minCostClimbingStairs(self, cost: List[int]) -> int:
        
```

# Description
You are given an integer array `cost` where `cost[i]` is the cost of `i^th` step on a staircase. Once you pay the cost, you can either climb one or two steps.

You can either start from the step with index `0`, or the step with index `1`.

Return _the minimum cost to reach the top of the floor_.

**Example 1:**  
**Input:** `cost = [10,15,20]`  
**Output:** `15`  
**Explanation:** You will start at index 1.  
- Pay 15 and climb two steps to reach the top.
The total cost is 15.

**Example 2:**  
**Input:** `cost = [1,100,1,1,1,100,1,1,100,1]`  
**Output:** `6`  
**Explanation:** You will start at index 0.  
- Pay 1 and climb two steps to reach index 2.
- Pay 1 and climb two steps to reach index 4.
- Pay 1 and climb two steps to reach index 6.
- Pay 1 and climb one step to reach index 7.
- Pay 1 and climb two steps to reach index 9.
- Pay 1 and climb one step to reach the top.
The total cost is 6.

**Constraints:**
- `2 <= cost.length <= 1000`
- `0 <= cost[i] <= 999`

---


# Approaches

```python
class Solution:
    def minCostClimbingStairs(self, cost: List[int]) -> int:
        for i in range(len(cost) - 3, -1, -1):
            cost[i] += min(cost[i + 1], cost[i + 2])

        return min(cost[0], cost[1])

```

Commit message:

graphs, dp, meta
- finished graphs
- halfway through 1d dynamic programming
- adjusted a lot of how i use obsidian ie style; ie im using tags for fundies

LeetCode/746. Min Cost Climbing Stairs.md, after:

[746. Min Cost Climbing Stairs](https://leetcode.com/problems/min-cost-climbing-stairs/)

```python
class Solution:
    def minCostClimbingStairs(self, cost: List[int]) -> int:
        
```

# Description
You are given an integer array `cost` where `cost[i]` is the cost of `i^th` step on a staircase. Once you pay the cost, you can either climb one or two steps.

You can either start from the step with index `0`, or the step with index `1`.

Return _the minimum cost to reach the top of the floor_.

**Example 1:**  
**Input:** `cost = [10,15,20]`  
**Output:** `15`  
**Explanation:** You will start at index 1.  
- Pay 15 and climb two steps to reach the top.
The total cost is 15.

**Example 2:**  
**Input:** `cost = [1,100,1,1,1,100,1,1,100,1]`  
**Output:** `6`  
**Explanation:** You will start at index 0.  
- Pay 1 and climb two steps to reach index 2.
- Pay 1 and climb two steps to reach index 4.
- Pay 1 and climb two steps to reach index 6.
- Pay 1 and climb one step to reach index 7.
- Pay 1 and climb two steps to reach index 9.
- Pay 1 and climb one step to reach the top.
The total cost is 6.

**Constraints:**
- `2 <= cost.length <= 1000`
- `0 <= cost[i] <= 999`

---


# References

## #dynamic_programming 
- solution to subproblem n can be computed from solutions to subproblems n-1 and n-2
- so we only need to maintain 2 values in memory at any time



# Results



# Approaches


## dynamic programming

```python
# O(1) space
class Solution:
	

# in-place
class Solution:
    def minCostClimbingStairs(self, cost: List[int]) -> int:
        for i in range(len(cost) - 3, -1, -1):
            cost[i] += min(cost[i + 1], cost[i + 2])

        return min(cost[0], cost[1])

```
