LeetCode/787. Cheapest Flights Within K Stops.md, before:

[787. Cheapest Flights Within K Stops](https://leetcode.com/problems/cheapest-flights-within-k-stops/)

```python
class Solution:
    def findCheapestPrice(self, n: int, flights: List[List[int]], src: int, dst: int, k: int) -> int:
        
```

# Description

There are `n` cities connected by some number of flights. You are given an array `flights` where `flights[i] = [from_i, to_i, price_i]` indicates that there is a flight from city `from_i` to city `to_i` with cost `price_i`.

You are also given three integers `src`, `dst`, and `k`, return _**the cheapest price** from_ `src` _to_ `dst` _with at most_ `k` _stops._ If there is no such route, return `-1`.

**Example 1:**  
![](!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240418142214.png)  
**Input:** `n = 4, flights = [[0,1,100],[1,2,100],[2,0,100],[1,3,600],[2,3,200]], src = 0, dst = 3, k = 1`  
**Output:** `700`  
**Explanation:**  
The graph is shown above.  
The optimal path with at most 1 stop from city 0 to 3 is marked in red and has cost 100 + 600 = 700.  
Note that the path through cities `[0,1,2,3]` is cheaper but is invalid because it uses 2 stops.  

**Example 2:**  
![](!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240418142225.png)  
**Input:** `n = 3, flights = [[0,1,100],[1,2,100],[0,2,500]], src = 0, dst = 2, k = 1`  
**Output:** `200`  
**Explanation:**  
The graph is shown above.  
The optimal path with at most 1 stop from city 0 to 2 is marked in red and has cost 100 + 100 = 200.  

**Example 3:**  
![](!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240418142236.png)  
**Input:** `n = 3, flights = [[0,1,100],[1,2,100],[0,2,500]], src = 0, dst = 2, k = 0`  
**Output:** `500`  
**Explanation:**  
The graph is shown above.  
The optimal path with no stops from city 0 to 2 is marked in red and has cost 500.  

**Constraints:**
- `1 <= n <= 100`
- `0 <= flights.length <= (n * (n - 1) / 2)`
- `flights[i].length == 3`
- `0 <= from_i, to_i < n`
- `from_i != to_i`
- `1 <= price_i <= 10^4`
- There will not be any multiple flights between two cities.
- `0 <= src, dst, k < n`
- `src != dst`

---

# Approaches


```python
class Solution:
    def findCheapestPrice(
        self, n: int, flights: List[List[int]], src: int, dst: int, k: int
    ) -> int:
        prices = [float("inf")] * n
        prices[src] = 0

        for i in range(k + 1):
            tmpPrices = prices.copy()

            for s, d, p in flights:  # s=source, d=dest, p=price
                if prices[s] == float("inf"):
                    continue
                if prices[s] + p < tmpPrices[d]:
                    tmpPrices[d] = prices[s] + p
            prices = tmpPrices
        return -1 if prices[dst] == float("inf") else prices[dst]

```

Commit message:

graphs, dp, meta
- finished graphs
- halfway through 1d dynamic programming
- adjusted a lot of how i use obsidian ie style; ie im using tags for fundies

LeetCode/787. Cheapest Flights Within K Stops.md, after:

[787. Cheapest Flights Within K Stops](https://leetcode.com/problems/cheapest-flights-within-k-stops/)

```python
class Solution:
    def findCheapestPrice(self, n: int, flights: List[List[int]], src: int, dst: int, k: int) -> int:
        
```

# Description

There are `n` cities connected by some number of flights. You are given an array `flights` where `flights[i] = [from_i, to_i, price_i]` indicates that there is a flight from city `from_i` to city `to_i` with cost `price_i`.

You are also given three integers `src`, `dst`, and `k`, return _**the cheapest price** from_ `src` _to_ `dst` _with at most_ `k` _stops._ If there is no such route, return `-1`.

**Example 1:**  
![](!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240418142214.png)  
**Input:** `n = 4, flights = [[0,1,100],[1,2,100],[2,0,100],[1,3,600],[2,3,200]], src = 0, dst = 3, k = 1`  
**Output:** `700`  
**Explanation:**  
The graph is shown above.  
The optimal path with at most 1 stop from city 0 to 3 is marked in red and has cost 100 + 600 = 700.  
Note that the path through cities `[0,1,2,3]` is cheaper but is invalid because it uses 2 stops.  

**Example 2:**  
![](!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240418142225.png)  
**Input:** `n = 3, flights = [[0,1,100],[1,2,100],[0,2,500]], src = 0, dst = 2, k = 1`  
**Output:** `200`  
**Explanation:**  
The graph is shown above.  
The optimal path with at most 1 stop from city 0 to 2 is marked in red and has cost 100 + 100 = 200.  

**Example 3:**  
![](!assets/attachments/Pasted%20image%2020240418142236.png)  
**Input:** `n = 3, flights = [[0,1,100],[1,2,100],[0,2,500]], src = 0, dst = 2, k = 0`  
**Output:** `500`  
**Explanation:**  
The graph is shown above.  
The optimal path with no stops from city 0 to 2 is marked in red and has cost 500.  

**Constraints:**
- `1 <= n <= 100`
- `0 <= flights.length <= (n * (n - 1) / 2)`
- `flights[i].length == 3`
- `0 <= from_i, to_i < n`
- `from_i != to_i`
- `1 <= price_i <= 10^4`
- There will not be any multiple flights between two cities.
- `0 <= src, dst, k < n`
- `src != dst`

---



# References

## #graphs/shortest_path algos
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shortest_path_problem
	- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shortest_path_problem#Paths_with_constraints
	- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Constrained_Shortest_Path_First
		- A _constraint_ could be minimum bandwidth required per link (also known as bandwidth guaranteed constraint), end-to-end delay, maximum number of links traversed, include/exclude nodes.
	- todo: figure out all the important problem variants, and then the standard algo variants to use
		- and find problems+fundies
- recall that bellman-ford leverages bfs
	- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bellman%E2%80%93Ford_algorithm
	- base version solves same problem as base djikstra

# Results
## constrained shortest path: max edges traversed
- this problem is just:
	- 'find min weight path given cap on edges'
	- and so: use a bellman-ford variant
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5eIK3zUdYmE&list=PLPe9IkX86X3y5m_MvtNu2ughxsvkqUNKr&index=98



# Strategies


## #graphs/bellman-ford
```python
class Solution:
    def findCheapestPrice(
        self, n: int, flights: List[List[int]], src: int, dst: int, k: int
    ) -> int:
        prices = [float("inf")] * n
        prices[src] = 0

        for i in range(k + 1):
            tmpPrices = prices.copy()

            for s, d, p in flights:  # s=source, d=dest, p=price
                if prices[s] == float("inf"):
                    continue
                if prices[s] + p < tmpPrices[d]:
                    tmpPrices[d] = prices[s] + p
            prices = tmpPrices
        return -1 if prices[dst] == float("inf") else prices[dst]

```
