[9. Palindrome Number](https://leetcode.com/problems/palindrome-number/)

```python
class Solution:
    def isPalindrome(self, x: int) -> bool:
        
```

# Description

Given an integer `x`, return `true` _if_ `x` _is a **palindrome**, and_ `false` _otherwise_.

An integer is a **palindrome** when it reads the same forward and backward.

For example, `121` is a palindrome while `123` is not.

**Example 1:**  
**Input:** `x = 121`  
**Output:** `true`  
**Explanation:** 121 reads as 121 from left to right and from right to left.

**Example 2:**  
**Input:** `x = -121`  
**Output:** `false`  
**Explanation:** From left to right, it reads -121. From right to left, it becomes 121-. Therefore it is not a palindrome.

**Example 3:**  
**Input:** `x = 10`  
**Output:** `false`  
**Explanation:** Reads 01 from right to left. Therefore it is not a palindrome.

**Constraints:**
- `-2^31 <= x <= 2^31 - 1`

**Follow up:** Could you solve it without converting the integer to a string?

---


# todo

#/fundy 
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computational_complexity_of_mathematical_operations
- https://docs.oracle.com/cd/E19957-01/806-3568/ncg_goldberg.html



#/anki

- nice tip for 'clean code'
- https://realpython.com/python-data-types/#integer-literals
- https://realpython.com/python-numbers/#integers
	- In Python, you can’t use commas to group digits in integer literals, but you can use underscores (`_`). Both of the following are valid ways to represent the number one million as an integer literal:
```python
>>> 1000000
1000000

>>> 1_000_000
1000000
```


#/meta 
- should i add my own difficulty ratings for problems?
- example:
	- some 'hard' problems are actually very if you know your fundamentals
		- ie [[37. Sudoku Solver]]
		- basically, if you understand the broad approach: then it's easy to implement
	- some 'easy' problems are actually hard to really understand correctness, bc lots of subtle things going on
		- ie 'no strings' strat for [[9. Palindrome Number]]
		- basically: even if u understand the broad approach: a clean and correct implementation is actually very difficult
		- (NEVER MIND...becomes way easier if you 'compare during loop')



#/fundy 
- seems big reasons to put 'special cases' at the beginning:
	- so that main routine can probly be (a lot) simpler
- and also what is the thought process to find special cases?
	- do you first write a 'main routine candidate', and then think about:
		- what cases aren't properly addressed by main routine?
		- are there special cases i can address seprately, that would allow the main routine to be simpler?

# References


## #math/strings 

- aka simulating string ops via math ops

- the behavior of `%, //` when second arg is 10:
	- `n % 10` returns last digit
		- aka `s[-1]`
	- `n // 10`: 'truncates' last digit
		- aka `s[:-1]`

- !!! what about first digit?
	- (see the strat below; #move explanation up here)
	- returning first digit:
		- 
	- truncating first digit:
		- 


- order relations `x < y` and `x <= y`:
	- both simulate `len(s) <= len(t)`



## #python/int 

- space complexity?
	- seems can basically consider any number within 2^64 range to be O(1)
	- larger than that...it's true, uses more bits...
		- but isn't it still O(1)? bc doubling the 'max int for one bit'...thats two bits...so that's O(1) still?
	- refs
		- https://realpython.com/python-bitwise-operators/#integers-in-python
		- https://stackoverflow.com/questions/71248975/why-python-only-uses-30-bit-from-every-32-bit-unsigned-integers-instead-of-using
		- https://cs.stackexchange.com/questions/116923/space-complexity-for-storing-integers-in-python
		- https://stackoverflow.com/questions/60168513/why-are-strings-space-complexity-on-but-numbers-are-o1



## #ad_hoc 

- #/jargon idk what to call this yet
	- summary: default to comparing inside loop, bc might be far easier to 'prove' correctness



- observe that the 'no strings; compare outside loop' solution:
	- far more complicated to prove correctness
- why is it so much harder to compare at the end, instead of comparing as we go?
	- it's bc: for numbers, it's annoying af to determine lengths
		- vs with strings, this is trivial af
	- so this is why, far easier to compare each digit inside the loop
		- also tbh this is just more efficient anyways? bc if u find a mismatch, can just return false immediately
	- maybe general idea here: if u can do 'smaller'/'incremental' comparisons for your solution: then do that
		- not just because more efficient
		- but possibly far easier to implement
- so keep the reasoning for the second approach
	- to demonstrate how much more complicated 'correctness' is
	- (and also: i spent so much time trying to prove correctness here, i don't wanna delete lol..and feel like i learned a lot too, that could surely be useful at some point?)




# Strategies

## no strings; compare during loop




```python
class Solution:
    def isPalindrome(self, x: int) -> bool:
        if x < 0: return False
        
        div = 1
        while x >= 10 * div:
            div *= 10
            
        while x:
            right = x % 10
            left = x // div
            
            if left != right: return False
            
            x = (x % div) // 10
            div = div / 100
        return True
```


### strat overview

- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yubRKwixN-U
	- wait this seems way easier....why compare at the end...
		- just compare as we go through...
	- actually; not straightforward either; but still, def far easier than 'comparing' at the end

- the key is the 'div' variable, that lets u perform 2 important steps:
	- 'isolate left digit'
	- 'truncate left digit'
	- div is multiple of 10 that's same 'length' as curr x
		- and to update div, you divide 100 bc need to remove 2 digits
		- bc x is 2 digits shorter now

### returning left digit
- aka `left = x // div`

### truncating x on both ends
- truncate from left: `x = x % div`
	- bc remainder
- (then) truncate from right: `x = x // 10`


## no strings; compare after loop



- complexity
	- O(n) time
	- O(1) space
		- storing an integer is constant space (we know our ints are within bounds for no overflow to require more 'bits'...)

```python
class Solution:
2    def is_palindrome(self, number: int) -> bool:
5        if number < 0 or (number != 0 and number % 10 == 0):
6            return False
7      
8        reversed_half = 0
10        while reversed_half < number:
11            reversed_half = reversed_half * 10 + number % 10
12            number //= 10

16        return number == reversed_half or number == reversed_half // 10
```


### strat overview
- strat
	- construct the front half and reversed back half
- specifically
	- incrementally:
		- construct the reversed back portion
		- truncate the input
	- break condition: stop once `x,y` are within 'length' 1 of each other
		- this is subtle to simulate via math ops, see below

### break condition
- explaining the break condition:
	- basically, the only way you can compare `x,y` is with the order comparisons
		- ie `<, <=, >, >=`
	- aka you know you have to use this in the break condition
	- and you already start off with `x >= y`
		- so your break condition needs to use `x>y` or `x>=y`
		- (i don't think it matters which one?)
	- so now: when you break out of it, what does this mean?
		- so we have `x<=y` or `x<y`
		- either of which tell us that wrt 'lengths', `len(x) <= len(y)`
	- ie if one of the halves is longer, it will be `y`
		- ie if input was odd, then `y` is the 'longer' number
	- importantly: while the loop is valid: we had  `x>y` or `x>=y`
		- aka wrt 'lengths', `len(x) >= len(y)`
		- so when we break, it's the 'first time' that the length relation could flip
		- so this is how we know the halves are 'within 1'


### checking halves
- so: now that we know that, we have the 2 halves:
	- (and that if one of the halves is longer, it will be `y`)
	- we check for palindrome
	- you have 2 cases:
		- if og was even:
			- then check `x==y`
		- if og was odd:
			- need to discard middle digit of og string
			- aka last digit of `y`
			- so check `x == y // 10`



### case: even vs odd
- how do we know that the input is even or odd length?
	- you could iterate a process of modding by 10 at the beginning, to count how many truncations
- or trick: realize that there's like an 'IFF' relationship going on
	- 'lengths equal or off by one' is actually an IFF relationship with the even/odd cases
	- aka can combine via `return x in (y, y // 10)`
		- ie don't need a conditional for even/odd cases



### case: negatives

- from example:
	- see that negative numbers aren't palindromes
		- very easy to handle this case
		- (and now means, can assume in main routine, that we have a non-neg number)

### case: nonzero multiples of 10

- do you need to handle 'nonzero multiple of 10' separately?
	- (answer: yes)
	- and if so: how to realize this?

- inspo attempt:
	- realize that the main routine:
		- if number ends in 0
			- then `y` will just be 0 until the first nonzero digit occurs
		- and you will return wrong thing, bc then the main routine will return true if the input (without ending zeros) is a palindrome
	- so you DO need to handle this case separately

